Transcript from2026-01-23T09:00:57Z
Speaker 1 00:00:05
So I wanted to reflect. I don't think we do enough time reflecting on the journey, but I'm certainly not suggesting we rest on our laurels, nor do I think others are. But seven years, this company, I think we just have to recognize how unique. This is extremely rare for those that have a lot of gray hair, hairs, hair. You know, we've been around. You rarely see this. And the ones that you generally hear about, right, is the ones, you know, all the other big companies. And I think there's some misconception that that's common, but it's frankly not.
Speaker 1 00:00:40
And so kind of the stats you see, the if you look at the things that all have to align. So timing is certainly a big component. So it's I would say it's it is somewhat luck, but luck favors those that are persistent and adaptive. So timing wise, we were extremely fortunate. There was a market need that was underserved for decades. And then our product offering that we brought to bear has resonated. And it's something that a lot of other industries or verticals have already experienced. We're just bringing forward to the state agencies that do driver and vehicle services.
Speaker 1 00:01:18
The other part is recognizing that this is a team sport. It requires all the different functions. It's not just contracting. It's not just delivery, testing, securing. There's a lot that goes into the support and maintaining our clients. And I think I would say the feedback has been very positive in the states that we've been in, which is unlike our competitors. I think there's a bit of hubris because they have grown and they have huge, I would say, revenue. They will at times lose touch.
Speaker 1 00:01:52
I think that's something we need to keep in the center. so if you look at startups uh you know i've said this before these are things that uh statistica shares but generally uh ninety percent of startups fail um ten percent of those ten percent uh i did the animation correcting most companies are generally in that one million ar we've far surpassed that uh and every rung of the ladder gets harder and harder and so very few companies that are successful make it to the 10 million annual recurring revenue and those are your.
Speaker 1 00:02:24
typical mom and pops um i would say ddi prior to acquisition was operating uh well under 10. and then very few companies make it uh to 100 and that's a bit of ceiling and if you look at this kind of the powers of 10 very few companies can get there and sustain it and it's largely culture process and the overall product in terms of how we've designed it and certainly, There is, I would say, active stewardship because we have to make compromises. We have to hit dates. But the team support component is there's other functional areas that are going in,
Speaker 1 00:02:57
identifying areas of improvement, identifying tech debt. And so we have this continuous improvement. And a lot of young companies, and I would put us in this category, don't have that. And a lot of them hit that ceiling. But the advantage that we have is a lot of our folks are not new, right? We've been around the block. We, frankly, have seen a lot of companies where they just don't, they just can't grow because they're just so dysfunctional in terms of lack of process, or I would say largely culture, where you start to get into a little bit of politics, which is unavoidable.
Speaker 1 00:03:29
to some extent, but we want to actively manage that. some of the top three, right? Generating new business. That is an area that, companies that are successful, 51% is attributed to that. And I would argue we've been very, very effective. The market has responded very well. Second is we are outperforming all of our competitors and non-competitors in our ability to deliver and execute. And as much as I have high expectations, I do recognize what we've accomplished is very rare.
Speaker 1 00:03:59
We are working on a lot of critical systems. Certainly there's issues and outages, but as a whole, I think we've weathered that pretty well. And if you compare us to other vendors out there, we're far below the average. Number three is where we're investing more. We're growing functional areas to be closer to our customers. So the idea is our partnerships, our clients, we're investing in. And with the two recent hires with Brian Lally focusing on West Virginia and Tabitha Clemons in Kentucky, that model, I think, is one that we recently recognized we have to have.
Speaker 1 00:04:34
And we've seen tremendous already improvements with the sentiment with West Virginia and Kentucky. The other piece, I would say our competitive advantage. There are a lot of smart people. There are a lot of great ideas. But our biggest advantage is our people that we have, that we continue to invest in, recruit, and to some extent, we do promote some to customer when they're not a fit. And there's a quote that I really like that I came across. The culture of any organization is shaped by the worst behavior the leader is willing to tolerate. And I think you guys have probably not experienced this.
Speaker 1 00:05:09
There's inconsistencies in what they say versus what they do. And a lot of companies, and this was a Google AI interpretation that I thought was really nice, it's not all the written stuff, mission statements and posters that you put on the wall. That to me is meaningless. It's really at the root of what are we doing at the smallest level of teams? Are we collaborative or are we compartmentalized, throwing things over the wall? Are we pointing fingers or assigning blame or are we really looking at it as a team? I mean, football, you can blame the defense for not playing well, but at the end of the day, it's a team sport.
Speaker 1 00:05:43
So this is a quote, and this is the mindset I'd like us to consider. We are 80 people in. We're going to be adding significant more people. And the thing that will, I think, largely prevent us to get to where we want to get to, which is to be the market leader, to exceed 100 plus million in annual recurring revenue, is going to be the culture that we have. And it starts with everyone at this company. So agenda wise, there's a lot here. As always, you'll get a copy of the presentation. And then there will be a survey to the group that I believe Chris will send out. I do like feedback. So I more appreciate the critical ones than the positives, because those are areas that can really help us improve. And for all of us, including myself.
Speaker 1 00:06:24
So I want to go through market view and how we're being positioned. Our approach that has resonated in the market. I think if you look at and we are, we've never done a lot of these things. States, our government is inherently risk adverse. Our ability to go in and win these work, I think is a testament to a lot of things, our team, our reputation, but it's also just our approach, which is fundamentally different than a lot of the other competitors out there that I'll kind of go into in terms of the solution landscape. We'll go into the high level, our platform, ChampGov.
Speaker 1 00:06:57
Hopefully everyone, most everyone is familiar with it. And then some of the key, I would say, modules or capabilities that's really resonating with our customers. Our clerk portal in particular, there was a revamp and we'll continue to invest in refining and obsessing over the user experience of our customers. And our new capability, what we're calling IDLS, this is credentialing. So driver's license, commercial driver's license, state IDs. This is, to say it's a mission critical system is an understatement. In a state with Louisiana and many others, it is everything that all of the ancillary agencies rely on.
Speaker 1 00:07:32
So if you're talking about family, child services, Medicare, Medicaid benefits, even in Louisiana, permit to carry firearm is our system. We're the system of record by which everything else is fed to other agencies, even Department of Revenue. wildlife. And just a quick anecdote, just a side story. I was watching Louisiana Law on Smithsonian, and they were trying to look up someone's information, and a dispatch said, the system's not, which is the system that we're looking to replace. So even on the show,
Speaker 1 00:08:04
you could see the fragility of what they have. There was a podcast yesterday with Louisiana governor. They had at one point experienced a 60-day outage of their driver and vehicle system. I can't imagine being in that situation. So we, I think you guys have all seen, we won Louisiana and a large part of our IDLS is focusing on that. And there's some other emerging, I would say, opportunities associated with that. I'll go through a cursory level of our tech stack and then wrap it up with our 2025 priorities and kind of closing thoughts there. So fastest growing.
Speaker 1 00:08:37
company, we'll go through this timeline pretty quickly, 2018 Q1. It was me, Dan, Ian, I'm not so forgetting, Shane, obviously. That's all that's left. So we launched our DTL, which obviously we just retired and migrated to our S-10 or clearinghouse. I would say our huge moment was with West Virginia DMV, and we continue to have that strong relationship, very loyal to the opportunity they gave us, because without West Virginia, we would not have won the subsequent work, which is namely New Jersey, a top 12 in terms of volume state that we won.
Speaker 1 00:09:14
And the team was able to deliver an ELT in a very complex, challenging environment with New Jersey that they spent two years trying to just map the requirements. The team was able to get in there in 12 months and deploy it. It's just, we're breaking every record. We continue to compare what other competitors are doing. Our fastest deployment was in Illinois, which was six months. And I think the closest or the average deployments by other solution providers are 18 to 24 months, just to launch it in another 12.
Speaker 1 00:09:44
18 months before they're getting transactions. And so Kentucky, very challenging there, primarily because they also decided to do a complete system modernization and a new capability on top of that. So the team's been, it's not ideal. Kentucky is very complex in terms of the decentralized nature with their clerk of courts. And in spite of that, I think with recently with Tabitha joining on, we're getting some significant traction. Our clearinghouse, Brian Calloway is leading that. And he's been a great add with the team that's focused now on growing.
Speaker 1 00:10:15
And so we're seeing some pretty significant growth there, which is, for many that might not know, that's really an extension of S-10. And S-10 was actually a brainchild of Dan on a flight back with Bernie. I think he called it STEP, but I decided to change it to S-10, which is our Secure Title Exchange Network. And the bigger idea there is to provide a national thoroughfare network to exchange title data. So you can argue, well, NVIDAS is there. There are some limitations. for lenders to be able to transfer their liens, and allow kind of the any to any gateway.
Speaker 1 00:10:49
That's the bigger idea with the S10. So with the clearinghouse, it's more on the acquisition side. Our digital title, so this is very exciting. We launched it, we had our first in Q3, a title interstate digital title transfer. And I think more recently, we did a full digital title reassignment, and a transfer of ownership to a private citizen. I believe it was in North Carolina. Rhode Island, the team, so we closed that in Q4. So it's almost coming up in a year. And then we repackaged all of our,
Speaker 1 00:11:20
I would say our product offerings, under the Chamco platform. And there was a revamp of the clear portal. And then as you guys all know, Louisiana winning that as a complete system modernization, primarily leading with drivers is a huge, huge. I would say it's a watershed moment for us because that puts us on the map to fully be able to offer the entire solutions that a lot of state agencies are looking for versus just focusing on a vehicle. Can I just add to that, Beau. 
Speaker 2 00:11:46
Yes. No, I just wanted to highlight, not only does it put us on the map with having deliberated a full system replacement, which is oftentimes a requirement for even participating in an RFP for modernization, but it's also the first time that we have beaten our two biggest competitors in that space. A lot of folks have sort of communicated that there were only two players in that space, Fast Enterprises and Kindle, who are working with the Arizona Source Code, and we were chosen above both of those centers.
Speaker 1 00:12:11
Yeah, that's pretty significant, and there was a quote by the governor's office that I think Shane and LT will use to our advantage. So, again, reflecting on some of the things we brought to the industry. So, I want to highlight, we are now, well, if not, the emerging leader of thought leaders in vehicle titling and registrations, namely e-titling and ELT. And so, our team is being continually asked to present as keynotes or working sessions and or be involved. We've gone, I would say, a long way in establishing standards around ELT in terms of the transaction sets that our goal is to, as we deploy more and more states, is to allow other states that have their own ELT to leverage our global ELT gateway.
Speaker 1 00:12:55
So, that's a huge, I would say, advancements that we are now the experts in ELT, and that's probably the most mature product offering that we have. Like I said, we're the first, and I say transactable digital. Other states may claim they have it, but it's not truly transactable as it relates to interstate. Interstate, that's not a hard problem to solve. Interstate is far more complex, and the team has worked. We brought a lot of new capabilities, like digital title reassignment. And so that's a huge innovation that I don't think we always reflect on and appreciate.
Speaker 1 00:13:28
The introduction of a global ELT gateway. This has also been a huge game changer. I know a lot of lenders are very interested, namely Chase. It simplifies their onboarding process and you couple that with the standardized transaction set. They're able to, one way to interact to many different states and states to interact in their own way, but interface with the lenders in the same consistent manner. So this is pretty significant, I would say, innovation that we brought. The first to deploy AI for vehicle titling. I know it's an initial version.
Speaker 1 00:13:59
We're excited about where this is going to go with continual investment. It's already picking up a lot of traction and interest. It was also mentioned by the governor's office in Louisiana that AI is being used. South Carolina is looking to leverage it. And so this is another, I would say, key area that we brought prior to this whole AI type curve that everyone is seeing right now. We were, I would say, early stages a couple of years ago. And the last piece is that we were the first to release, well, I don't know if that's debatable. It was the first idea in legislation and I would say as a complete. packaged to have a national clearinghouse. It's a bit of the turtle and hare. We're playing the.
Speaker 1 00:14:33
long-term game. We believe we're building a system that is far more scalable, far more secure, and it benefits, or I would say in full support of the state, whereas another state that's doing that, namely V2, they're going about it in a way that is, I would say, questionable. Okay, so six states. I think this is really cool to see when you're looking at now from, I would say when we got our first West Virginia, the growth has been pretty phenomenal, and our team's ability to execute and now serve, I think, has been what has allowed us to win more and more states.
Speaker 1 00:15:06
And so the way – and I'll get into a bit of the positioning of our product or how we're selling it, but these are by layers where we talk about the adaptability of our solution. We can connect to existing systems of record like Kentucky, Rhode Island, but we're also in consideration in other states like New Jersey to replace their system of record and also in consideration to replace their driver system as part of the Louisiana win. I think that's – I would certainly say post-launch case studies delivered it for cheaper, faster, which seems – doesn't seem realistic, but I think we're going to take a lot of that, and I imagine our business – our BD pipeline will be pretty massive.
Speaker 1 00:15:44
All right. So just looking at – That's where we are. These are kind of estimates, but I do like to look at the score. So in terms of contracted – revenue not earned is around 44. We think the clearinghouse is probably sitting around a 10. But I think that is, it's a new product. So it's hard to say. But I think with Brian and team, there's tremendous demand out there that I think we can easily reach that goal. In terms of what I consider contracting, where we're past the consideration, it's just a matter of, hey, when can we start the contract? When can we give them the statement of work? You're looking at West Virginia's interest in driver's license. Connecticut is interested in ERT, ELT. Kansas with ERT and ELT will lead ELT first with that. South Carolina's dealer association is interested in the AI piece to help the review process. And then Illinois, New Jersey, the phase two work, that should come at some point.
Speaker 1 00:16:37
And so this is, if you're looking at the numbers, this is pretty, pretty significant. And as I mentioned earlier, very few companies past 100. I think we have a pipeline that will allow us, at least in terms of contract value, to exceed that. And then the subsequent kind of the BD considerations is pretty massive as well. Now, Ryan, his projection of where we are from a revenue, from a pro rata standpoint, we're going to be sitting roughly around 19 million. So that's pretty, pretty great growth. But obviously, as you guys see, there's about 44 plus 10. 15. Some million that is out there that we can get.
Speaker 1 00:17:10
Again, the team support component is our, I would say, our activation, our adoption, our client support, production support all have an effect, I would say, direct impact, as well as the policies, the government affairs aspect to ensure we get mandated and that we have a team and a framework to get these lenders and dealers leveraging our system. So pretty exciting where we are and like a hockey stick. I think we're going to see tremendous growth in 20. All right, so in terms of marketing positioning, if you look at the 51 states.
Speaker 1 00:17:43
There's roughly 300 million credentials, which is ID, state IDs, state IDs, driver's license, and CDLs. That's a pretty huge market. Registered vehicles, dealers, roughly around 60 million. There's a mix of new versus used, 40 million-ish in vehicle loans, and then 6 million in insurance total loss. So if you look at the total addressable market, which is just to size the space, and then what we believe is available to us, pretty substantial, and I think will continue to expand, and the green, is we believe there's 500-plus million that we can go obtain, right?
Speaker 1 00:18:15
And so I think, particularly with the driver, continue to, I would say, mature or deploy digital titles will open up new markets for us, getting AI to be more capable, again, will allow us to either expand our obtainable market and or grow what we believe is obtainable. So our focus, paper processes, it's a hairball. It's very disparate. It's... Thank you. The systems are fragile, there's not consistency across jurisdictions, and so there's tremendous, I would say, friction in the industry.
Speaker 1 00:18:47
For those that read Good to the Great, I think we read it, the hedgehog principle is be good at the one thing. And so our goal is to be the very best GovTech digital, I would say, SaaS company for state agencies. In terms of our focus, it's going to be titling, titled assets. I'm more broad with that because it could be VIN, HIN, could be airplanes. It could be other things that we can't even think about in terms of titled assets, not real estate, and credentials. Metric-wise, it's the revenue per title or credential record, and so we're starting to really formalize the, I would say, the commercial modeling and how we go to market associated with that.
Speaker 1 00:19:23
And so with that principle, our focus is enabling a digital process and bringing that ecosystem with a lot of the things that we haven't fully leveraged, like our S-Pen, is to allow for really interstate networking clearinghouse capabilities. So in terms of functionality, the vehicle services was what our focus was, right? Driver services, the new emerging, and then now we're on our roadmap is to start either by building partnerships or by acquiring capabilities or building them, business operational services. So outside that ring.
Speaker 1 00:19:54
I think everyone should be familiar with those services and capabilities. What is new that we have not built is primarily around commercial motor vehicles, so IRP, IFTA, which is IRP is just the registration plans. So when you'll see trailers that have apportioned, they have to pay a registration as a percentage of the mileage they drive in each of the states. And IFTA is the international fuel tax program that is administered by a lot of the state agencies. Credentially, so these are all the things that bring, so obviously the issuance of it, but there are other, I would say, expiration, renewals, revocations, it has to be accounted for.
Speaker 1 00:20:30
And there's this whole testing and driving schools that will be part of that, similar to the dealer licensing. And then the back office, point of sales, we've been integrating document management, the dashboard that is on our roadmap, and then the appointment scheduling integrations, again, with the third-party system. And so the landscape, if you look at who the players are by these layers, the green area, these are the conversations. Fast and the Kindrel Asterix AZ-MAX. using the Arizona source code. 3M, they have three or four, maybe five deployments. So Connecticut being one of the states,
Speaker 1 00:21:01
Kansas is another, forget a few others. I3 is primarily in Tennessee. And so when you start comparing, there's four or five players, including us. I think we're starting to get positioned to be the second. And like I said, our goal is to surpass fast enterprises. I don't know exactly the footprint that they have because we offer far more capabilities and we do it at a cost point that is significantly lower and we're able to deliver it faster than any of those other competitors. So I'll go through this. We've used this slide. I think it's resonated, but it's the paradigm shift of the old days.
Speaker 1 00:21:33
of where everyone used to buy the, well, I would say build the software. Ohio, namely, a build state and there are still a lot of states that do that. Moving to the buy options. We believe we're more of a sourcing of that capability. So the build, the buy, what I call above the water iceberg, the things that they don't account for. And this is where a lot of the, I would say the challenges of the program arise is. the things they didn't consider, namely the change management. How do you change behavior? How do you get them prepared? And so a lot of while the system works, and I would even argue that the tech is the easiest because it is very definable, the people side is very nebulous and requires a lot of EQ, empathy, and building relationships with these individuals in each of the state jurisdictions. And so that's what's not accounted for. And so when you talk about other states that have launched ELT, it hasn't gone successful because they didn't bring that to bear. We bring that, but we also then don't charge for it. That's part of our offering.
Speaker 1 00:22:21
And so this has resonated in the industry. We have different commercial models based on the state needs, but typically there is no upfront cost that's the risk on us, or there are some upfront costs, but there are some different flexible funding models that we've kind of defined as we've been talking to different states. So that said, we primarily focus on the paper transaction, which is a typical SaaS, and that's been fairly successful. The buy option is where Louisiana wanted to buy it, so they typically will purchase. There's an implementation cost, and then there's what we call a support and service SNS cost to maintain.
Speaker 1 00:22:51
And so that's kind of what we've been talking about, and that's kind of what we've been talking about, and that's kind of what we've been talking about, and that's kind, And then back to a better term, we call it the lease option. Maybe it's a hybrid where they pay for certain things, but it lowers the cost or the cost is not passed on to the consumers. And so West Virginia did this out of the gate with the walking title transfers. They prepaid for that when we kicked the project off. So our approach, we'll go into this real quick. We're fundamentally different than the competitors. Everyone else takes it from a time and materials consulting. They're going to do the discovery. They're going to map the requirements. They're going to implement a test to deploy it, and they're out. We're in for the long haul. And so that's why we call Ryan and Tabitha Government Partnership, because we believe this is a partnership and a relationship versus it being transactional.
Speaker 1 00:23:29
And the real point here is it are. Our incentives are completely aligned or tied to the state. Whereas if you're a software vendor, their incentive is to get paid for what they contractually agreed to, and or submit change requests, because the state forgot to account for that, right? So we don't institute a change request, because we're focused more on the partnership and a longer term view of our engagements with the states. So we talked about the alignment, it's the partnership, it's the speed, and it's the cost in terms of acquisition costs,
Speaker 1 00:24:01
as well as the ongoing costs for the state. And there's mention of it from the governor's office. I think if you guys can get the link, it'd be worth kind of hearing Governor Landry talk about some of the challenges and how they viewed us. They said that they saved future Louisiana tax dollars, $30 million, right? So that's pretty significant. So the other part that I think we differ is incremental modernization. Our mantra when we go talk to these states is we try not to run projects longer than 12 months. From my experience, and I think many others, projects that run longer than 12 months have high rates of failure.
Speaker 1 00:24:33
Either they go over budget or they continue to slip. And so we like to work in six to nine months to 12 months. And we'd like to deliver a feature that then the state agencies can, I would say, realize. And so this is another part of our, I would say, strategy in terms of modernization that's resonated with the state agencies. Okay, so our platform. So a lot of things you'll see in here, but essentially the red is what we are calling our core agency services. This is primarily focused on the state agencies that are administering the titling, commercial motor vehicles, credentialing.
Speaker 1 00:25:04
And then we have this other one at the very bottom, ended in licensing management. So dealers, driving schools, third-party examiners, some states manage and regulate lenders. And so that's a module that we will build at some point. And then everything under the blue is what we call our electronic agency services. Thank you. We've learned that in New Jersey, Illinois, we contracted just to do ELT or ERP, and there is such a lag between getting the phase two agreement contractually, and some of it is unavoidable, but we've never presented our contract in a way that said, hey, you're getting the suite of electronic agency services that encompasses all of these, and if you're interested in it, you can turn those on without a new contract.
Speaker 1 00:25:45
So we've submitted this to Connecticut and Kansas, and I think Kansas recently provided feedback that they were happy to see that ERT, the dealer side of the electronic services, was included, and so I think that just will help them after we do ELT to enable that, but just simplifies our contracting process, so we try to minimize the downtime between contracts. And then our digital agency services, so these are all the new capabilities, our vault, digital titles, our AI, our DLR, and just putting our global ELT in that.
Speaker 1 00:26:16
Bye-bye. So, these are the ones that are resonating and I'll kind of go through it as a cursory. You guys will, like I said, get the slides, but just wanted to go through those key areas. And then our clearinghouse, which is an extension of the REST 10, the team's been doing a great job adding new transaction sets as they've been getting the voice or feedback from the industry, right? We took an initial pass at this with a much smaller transaction set, but the idea is we're continuing to improve the services and there's new, I would say, transaction sets that we didn't even account for. And that's primarily with Brian Calloway, with Jill, Zaved, Donald, and team. They're able to really help mature this product set.
Speaker 1 00:26:52
So, as we get into our product, the focus is really taking a customer-centric architecture, which is just fundamentally different than what other states are doing. So, single pane of glass, seeing everything from a customer and all of the relationships. And, to that customer, our clerk portal, which is, if you looked at what other. With primarily with Abby's, I would say, vision and kind of her expertise, very excited of where we are and where it's going to go. There's a lot of, I would say, improvement and capabilities that we want to add to our clerk portal.
Speaker 1 00:27:26
But Abby will lead that way with interviewing our customers, starting to get usability feedback and just staying close to our end users to make sure that we'll continue to build an optimal user experience for our clerks. Our credentialing system, so a lot of transactions we've identified, namely the amount of integration is pretty significant. So on the vehicle side, the records are complicated. On the driver side, the records are more straightforward. On the vehicle side, there aren't that many integrations. On the credentialing side, there are. There's a lot, probably over 50, 60 different integration points.
Speaker 1 00:27:58
So if you think about Department of Taxation or at a state where they're looking to get Medicaid, Medicare, if your department has health when someone is deceased, law enforcement. So these are all, I would say, the integrations that we have to support, not only at the state level, but as well as the federal level. And then there's a lot of third-party integrations that we have to support. And so that's the bulk of the work with the credentialing side. The other piece that's really emerging is what we're calling MyDNBGov, the citizen portal access. And so this is just kind of giving you a sense. Our goal is to eventually down the road to have native apps.
Speaker 1 00:28:30
We'll continue to revisit the need for it, but the plan currently is to enable that. Our digital titles. And so this is one area where I would say LT's team in particular are getting continued interest. And I would say as soon as it's fully deployed, interstate, interstate, and more states are accepting West Virginia's digital title. I think. There's going to be tremendous interest from a lot of different states. Our AI piece, so we deployed the first version of it, we're going to continue to refine it, we're going to continue to build a roadmap and get the, I would say, feedback from the end users in terms of the, I would say, the usefulness of it.
Speaker 1 00:29:07
But our goal is, I'll call it three levels. So the first level of AI is just process automation. Go out, go out to different sources and just aggregate it and do a simple data match. Machine learning is more now you're looking at, is this a title? Pull the OCRs and start doing a match, right? Recognize what type of document it is. Deep learning, which is more aspirational, largely dependent on our data, is going to be starting to do predictive analytics, start to identify trends or anomalies that is out of line that could then prompt the clerk reviewing this, that this looks a little suspicious.
Speaker 1 00:29:39
Because there are times when a lot of things do match, but fraud continues to still occur. And so deep learning is the third phase of our AI, but there's a roadmap that we're looking to build out. And there's, like I said, there's tremendous interest in the industry associated with that. Or GLR. So this is another one where, you know, when you look at any systems that's been around, it's a bit of, I would say there's tremendous technical debt. A lot of states don't have unique identifiers. It's garbage in, garbage out. And so our solution initially was to focus on lender. We expanded GLR to now encompass all entity types to provide a single view of the entity, regardless of it being a lender, a dealer, an insurance carrier, or an individual citizen.
Speaker 1 00:30:17
We talked about our global ELT gateway. So the benefit here is you integrate once, integrate certified once, we standardize ELT transaction set. We have some work to do in Kentucky as it relates to some of the legislation that needs to be passed to support the transaction sets that we're looking to push for. And the other big piece is allowing the lenders to interact in a simple way, right? So they have one lender out code. They can use the lender codes as provision to them by the state, but it allows the many to many and just, like I said, streamlines the onboarding process and use by lenders with the ELT.
Speaker 1 00:30:47
So I'll just go through some screenshots. With our clerk portal. The, what I looked at when I initially wanted to build this out is a navigation that has a very email centric so the layout outlook email, you have different inboxes. We also want to incorporate a lot of the e commerce checkout flow so you'll, you'll see a lot of things that Abby and teams building out is the stepping right, how many steps are you to check out constructs, and then moving to more of an icon driven experience, which you're seeing a lot more of. And so that's the approach with the portal. And so a lot of things you're seeing here is the left navigation is adaptive configurable to the user context. It's also adaptive to what the state has subscribed for.
Speaker 1 00:31:28
So things can be turned on without a disruptive change. So like a feature like dashboarding or if the state wants. Drivers license or they only want drivers, but they want vehicle. These are things that is configurable and the whole work you construct that we built out, So single view customer, this is a draft version. Abby will continue to iterate on it, but we want to present to the clerk all of the information up front. There's a lot of iterations that we have to do because we have to interview the actual end users to understand what are they looking for, right?
Speaker 1 00:31:59
So this is our first proposal. We'll continue to refine this based on feedback, but essentially credential records versus you can go vehicle records and you can see all customer documents associated with this individual and then all of the activities, past activities that's occurred just gives the clerk a single pane of glass to be able to see all things associated with this individual. So I would, to some extent, I would say this is a CRM-like feature, but this is the, what you're seeing is what we're looking to deploy in Louisiana. So let's go through a couple.
Speaker 1 00:32:30
Vehicle view, having over dashboarding. So this is something is on our roadmap. I think we pushed this out a little bit based on competing priorities. And then I'll just go through credentialing. So just give you guys a sense again, and e-commerce like checkout. So collect the credential information, real ID, customer info, the integration that verifies the credentialing going out to the federal agencies to be able to report back. And so the big thing at the federal level that's required is one credential, one driver, one credential. So what it's really intended to do.
Speaker 1 00:33:00
is prevent someone who may have been involved in a vehicular homicide, move to another state and have a clean record and get a new driver's license, right? So that record travels with that individual across the 51 jurisdictions. And a lot of those integrations in here, what you're seeing is an actual result set of what they call a DHR driver history record that pulls all the information associated with what you have, violations that maybe occurred. So we're just seeing now the inner workings. Never saw this on my side, but they are tracking your records.
Speaker 1 00:33:31
across the country. These are variations, these are kind of concepts that were evolving but there's endorsements of what you can operate, there are restrictions, and then there are what we are calling designations. So these are things like if you're a ward of the state, you have a custodian for living will, I think you guys are all familiar with the organ donor, register voters, selective service, so these are all things that are part of our system. And then what we'll work on is the integration with namely Ademia, they're the largest credentialing production company, so they actually produce the physical card, so how do you capture a portrait, how to capture a signature, we'll flesh that out, so either it'll be in our system or we hand it off to the Ademia workstation to complete that and feed back to our system.
Speaker 1 00:34:17
This is a kind of final, here's the fees, you collect the payment, which follows a e-commerce, this would integrate with the state's POS system. And in Louisiana it's called Validate. In New Jersey it's Microsoft Dynamics, and in West Virginia it is Validate. And I don't know what Kentucky has might be their own homegrown system. All right. So we'll go through the the tech stack. So three things we focused on standardizing the blueprint. We have to agree on that city plan for our platform.
Speaker 1 00:34:47
What is that city plan? The reference architecture allows us to have that starter store concept, but then allow different teams to then work within that reference architecture. It is intended to have consistency that allows for scalability of different folks to be able to develop and build capabilities within that starter store concept. And most most important is standardizing the data model to a canonical data set. And so that's something I know Kevin and team have been working on pulling a lot of things in. And so our goal with Louisiana is to have that with the canonical data set of credentialing and customer out of the gate.
Speaker 1 00:35:25
So our tech stack here, just like I said, you'll see it, you'll get a copy of it. But what I want to go through here is the platform topology. So our ChampGov is our platform. We have suites, suites have product modules, and then containers, components, and classes. So the four suites I mentioned earlier are core agency, electronic agency, digital agency, and the business agency services. In terms of what the topology looks like, so we have web portal services, our product modules, we'll go into some of the color coding, this introduction of what we're calling our unified agency data model.
Speaker 1 00:35:56
So UADM, it's a customer vehicle schema, commercial motor vehicle schema, and GLR did miss here the credential component. And so the level one architecture are web portal services. So Clerk Portal will operate on ChampGov. Our dealer portal will operate on Dealertitle.com. These are the color code instances for states. LenderLeans.com is multi-tenant. They will access all of the states that they are managing liens where we provide ELT services. The citizen portal, MyDMV.gov, commercial motor vehicles, it will be CMVFleet.com.
Speaker 1 00:36:29
And then internally, our comm system, probably being Admin.Champ.gov. So this is the logical stack. The purples indicate more of the global shared services. So our GLR, global invoicing service, our GLT. And then operationally, we're building out comms, but we will acquire and deploy at some point an ERP system that allows us to not – we're going to have so much, I would say, financial data that you can't run that on QuickBooks that Ryan right now is running on.
Speaker 1 00:37:01
So we'll probably deploy some ERP solution at some point in the future. Our common chassis, so a lot of these are COS, IDM, currently using Key Cloak, audit, logging, alert messaging, RabbitMQ. So these are things that we believe are just commodity platforms that we're leveraging as part of the AWS. And then the purple here are DARs, our data warehouse program. So Kerry's team is running that, and that's an area that is really critical for us to build out, and it's been a focus this year. Our grid is our blockchain distributed ledger that we have some forms of, and then I mentioned earlier our S10. And then these are our libraries or reusable components.
Speaker 1 00:37:36
So we do have a champion sign, DocViewer. So these are things that we're going to continue to expand, but allows that different product module to take advantage of it versus building something for messaging leans. All right, so we'll go through these. The tech stack. So three things we focus on standardizing the blueprint. We have to agree on that city plan. So our Champa platform, what is that city plan? The reference architecture allows us to, I would say, have that starter store concept, but then allow different teams to then work within that reference architecture.
Speaker 1 00:38:10
It is intended to have consistency, but allows for scalability of different folks to be able to develop and build capabilities within that starter store concept. And most important is standardizing our data model to a canonical data set. And so that's something I know Kevin and team have been working on pulling a lot of things in. And so our goal with Louisiana is to have that, I would say, the canonical data set of credentialing and customer out of the gate. So our tech stack here, like I said, you'll see, you'll get a copy of it.
Speaker 1 00:38:41
But. But what I want to go through here is the platform topology. So our Champa is our platform. We have suites. Suites have product modules and containers, components and classes. So the four suites I mentioned earlier are core agency, electronic agency, digital agency, and the business agency services. In terms of what the topology looks like, so we have web portal services, our product modules, we'll go into some of the color coding, and then this introduction of what we're calling our unified agency data model. So UADM, it's a customer vehicle schema, commercial motor vehicle schema, and GLR.
Speaker 1 00:39:14
I did miss here the credential component. And so the level one architecture are web portal services. So clerk portal will operate on champgov.com. Our dealer portal will operate on dealertitle.com. These are the color codes instance is per state. Lenderleans.com is multi-tenant. They will access all of the states that they are managing liens where we provide DLP services. The citizen portal, mydmvgov, and the CMV portal, commercial motor vehicles, it will be cmvfleet.com. And then internally, our comm system will probably be admin.champgov.
Speaker 1 00:39:47
So this is the logical stack. The purples indicate more of the global shared services. So our GLR, Global Invoicing Service, or GLT. And then operationally, we're building out TOMS, but we will acquire and deploy at some point an ERP system that allows us to not... We're going to have so much, I would say, financial data that you can't run that on QuickBooks that Ryan right now is running on. So we'll probably deploy some ERP solution at some point in the future.
Speaker 1 00:40:17
Our common chassis, so a lot of these are COTS, IDM, currently using Keycloak, audit, logging, alert messaging, RabbitMQ. So these are things that we believe are just commodity platforms that we're leveraging as part of the AWS. And then the purple here, our DARS, our Data Warehouse Program. So Kerry's team is running that, and that's an area that is really critical for us to build out, and it's been a focus this year. Our grid is our blockchain distributed ledger that we have some forms of, and then I mentioned earlier, S10. And then these are our libraries or reusable components as so we do have a champion sign.
Speaker 1 00:40:50
doc viewer. So these are things that we're going to continue to expand but allows them different, product modules to take advantage of it versus building something for you. So level two. So these are web apps, these are product modules, the product modules that have web portals, and the product modules that are headless. And so from a level two, how this is structured, so this is what Kevin's been working on. And then there's a level three diagram that goes in much more detail. But this is the reference architecture that we're moving toward so that all of every one of our product modules will follow this pattern, the unified agency data.
Speaker 1 00:41:25
model. So there's primarily right now five schemas. So look at customer schema to the left, our credential schema, MCAS, VITAS is what we have today, and then our GLR. So the GLR is agnostic. 
Speaker 3 00:41:38
it covers all entities. So in this example that you're seeing is a GLR entity can be a dealer, a lender.
Speaker 1 00:43:05
and ensure driving school, third-party examiners, customer, or a CMV operator. And it allows the GLR to maintain the global identifier to avoid the many-to-many duplicate records. So the big challenge in the industry is how do you get a single view? How do you merge, match-merge these records? And so a lot of things that the team is building out with GLR is it's another area of innovation and to our competitive advantage that we bring that other players in our space have not.
Speaker 1 00:43:36
All right, so our focus. So these are things we set out beginning of this year. So I would say we are progressing the blues, maturing our product management, client management, enterprise architecture, and data capabilities. I think we need to work. on improving the domain knowledge i think there's some challenges because you know it's like you everyone's heads down doing the work it's hard to take a step back and, go through maybe a learning or shadowing someone but certainly our goal is to carve some time out.
Speaker 1 00:44:07
to enable that um continuous improvements i know uh peter russell uh and team they've been identifying and very excited about the the kind of the maturation with that group uh the envision the vision of that division of that group was not to just do repetitive tasks not to just put out fires but to be a strategic component of our team where they're bringing ideas either from customers or they're continuing to eliminate manual or automated processes our strategic focus so i think we're progressing here.
Speaker 1 00:44:39
some of these we have done so like our cics web portal is launched, Our data program is maturing. There's been a lot of progress there with the team. Cade, like I said, was initially launched. And we're progressing. This is a pretty big effort on the digital title launch, primarily with the dealers and the change management and training that's required. And so that's a pretty big effort, but it's of strategic importance to us. That's going to open up new markets for us. So clearinghouse adoption revenue growth, that's been doing, I think, phenomenal.
Speaker 1 00:45:09
Tabitha just shared recently that we exceeded 10,000 ERT submissions this month in July. That's pretty significant. But the reason I put it as a red is we initially had plans to deploy a dealer portal, but other competing priorities, we pushed that out. And with Tabitha's focus on trying to get just better adoption and potentially introducing another ERT vendor there, we thought that that was a better area of focus. But certainly that's something we can reconsider. All right. So you've seen these slides, the key one. So if you look at these area, product management, EA, client activation, adoption, client service, data management, InfoSec, I think are areas that we need to really invest in.
Speaker 1 00:45:51
Our goal with these is we want to get them to a competent or a level where we have the practices, we have the processes, we have domain owners, and Tyler's looking to augment his team, certainly build test areas of improvement there, enterprises architecture, a lot of things that Kevin and team are doing with reference architecture, new data model, and establishing an architecture view board process. I think it's going to go a long way. Our CICD with Patrick area, I think, again, we're going to invest more people to improve that area. And then Ian's group, Chris, client activation and adoption, I think we have a better sense.
Speaker 1 00:46:26
of what needs to be done. And this is an area that we've struggled with since day one when we had West Virginia, right? And so I'm very confident that we're going to get to a place because I believe we have the right folks there, client service, I think the right focus is there, they're thinking more strategically, they're making data-driven decisions, data management area, and then, We're going to have to, and I think Dan and Jeremiah have done a great job part-timing this InfoSec DRC with Alex, but we need to really, I think, formalize the roles, have someone that just obsesses over InfoSec.
Speaker 1 00:46:59
And so that's something Shane and I are thinking through. It is a big cost, but to some extent, it's a non-negotiable as we venture into credential records, which is a pretty big responsibility. So we're going to plan accordingly to make sure we have the highest levels of DRC controls and InfoSec practices in place. And so those that will be on the Louisiana project team, Robert will have a fun onboarding process, but we'll kind of put you through those as it's appropriate when you're engaging with the project.
Speaker 1 00:47:35
I'm not going to drain this. This is a two-year outlook. As you can see, there's a lot of work. Our goal is to wrap up West Virginia. It's a long road there, but there are things where we want to get into more of the maintain and enhance phase. So this is where primarily Pete's team and the product support team will take over where, again, I don't want that team to fix bugs, fix issues or do technical things because there are gaps in our product or tools.
Speaker 1 00:48:08
I would love that team to be an extension of the product development team where they're working on enhancements. They're bringing new ideas, working with the client service team. And so that transition is something I'd like for us to focus on in 2026. So Kentucky, you're seeing the work there. Rhode Island, that's well in light will, I think, after we launch the phase one ELT. I think we're going to reevaluate the priorities to make sure we're deploying people that's going to give us the biggest return.
Speaker 1 00:48:39
So Rhode Island is a very small state. There may be an opportunity to slow down that project and deploy folks to more higher priorities like Louisiana, potentially New Jersey, as they're closing up discussions and ready to engage with us on the statement of work. And then South Carolina, the dealer association is interested in the Cade piece of it. They are doing a million or two reviews a year, and I might be wrong here. They have 20 clerks that are reviewing it, and so they want to take advantage of our Cade to streamline that review process and even shorten the review times that the clerks take, and that would then allow them to avoid additional headcount.
Speaker 1 00:49:21
And so that's an area that we're starting the conversations with South Carolina with the dealer association. The blues down here are not committed, but these are just kind of potential. So if the contract does come through, these are just projections. When will we start? When can we start? Do we have staffing to support? So you have Kansas, Connecticut, Arkansas, and Illinois. And so we'll kind of think through how we either prioritize and or staff or structure the team to start moving more into areas of focus that allows for, I would say, concurrent.
Speaker 1 00:49:53
work and allows us to scale. All right. So wrap up. I look at things in four P's, right? People, process, product policy. is that need to work together. There are different team members. Like I said earlier, just I think it's good to take a step back and realize how unique we are, how unique you all are to be part of a company. I've been around a lot of companies, and I know how rare this is. And we want to really then make sure the focus on the culture is something that is paramount. I know Shane's looking to hire an HR person.
Speaker 1 00:50:25
to really help with that. But team sport, I continue to encourage work with folks. I would say if there's conflict, don't send an email. Pick up the phone, walk over. There's a lot of nuances in communication, tone, sarcasm, or that's not conveyed in written words. And so realize that we're all, every area is critical. And so we need to be mindful that, and I'm not saying this is with malicious intent, but QA needs time. development typically, you know, goes over, well, then QA can't do it in two hours, right? So QA.
Speaker 1 00:50:60
needs their time. The client service, client activation team needs time to build the training manuals and understand what's getting released. And so those are things, as you take a step back, moving slow is faster. And so I'd like to challenge all of you to consider all the different teams that are either relying on you or that you're relying on and build those channels, communications, and not have to take a position, well, that's not my job, because if one area doesn't work, it's a failure in terms of our ability to launch, support, and maintain our clients. We are going to invest. So I know that a lot of the managers here have been very busy. We're.
Speaker 1 00:51:34
looking to add around 30 people over the next 12 months, in that there is significant leadership opportunities. And so I think another uniqueness is, we don't look at how many years you've been sitting in a seat, like a lot of companies, it's more about your results. And if you're 20-something, but you're just a natural leader and you're accomplishing, you're building, you're doing all the right things, we will give you those opportunities. And there's a lot of growth opportunities as well in terms of your career, not only in the role you're in, but even within the company, there are areas that you can move into different functional areas.
Speaker 1 00:52:06
And then we want to start looking at carving out time where there could be training. It could be a leadership training. It could be very specific to a skill set. There could be conferences. If there's AI events that people are interested in, those are things that we want to invest in. And I would say our focus is to dominate. It's to really own this vertical at GuffTech, and I think we can. We could be very disruptive. We could be the sales force of CRM that they were not the first. Google was not the first search engine. And that's our, I would say, hedgehog is to be the best and really surpass fast enterprises, at least to be second, strong second, but ultimately to pass fast enterprises and win more in the States.
Speaker 1 00:52:45
And I would say that's our focus. And I will kind of end with. I have blind spots. It's hard. I don't always get, and this is not, again, implying ill will, but my door is open. Shane has always said his door is open. I encourage you all to directly reach out to me, email, Slack. I want to know the concerns. I want to know what's not going well, right, because it's what we tolerate, and you all know at all levels what are things that you may think is being tolerated. I think it's more that we're not aware, right, and I am very – well, I know that – I know we, Shane, LT,
Speaker 1 00:53:21
and I are very – Ryan, we're very biased for action, so we want these feedback because, like I said, culture is a very, very important part of the company to allow us to get to what's in front of us. And then lastly, I said Chris will send out a product summit survey. Generally, if you find this interesting, if you want more of it, if you want it in person, what should we cover, or you hated it, I don't care. But I always like to get a 360 feedback. All right, I have things in the appendix for you to just kind of peruse. This is kind of the structure. This is our framework. I've just kind of gone through these pretty quick. So this will.
Speaker 1 00:53:54
all be part of the handouts that I provide. And then with that, that's a wrap.
Summary: 
> Date: 2026-01-23 09:00:57
> Location: [Insert Location]
> Participants: [Speaker 1] [Speaker 2] [Speaker 3]
## Meeting Notes
### **Company's 7-Year Journey and Unique Position**
- The company's 7-year journey is extremely rare for a startup, as 90% typically fail.
- Few successful startups reach $10 million in annual recurring revenue (ARR), a milestone the company has far surpassed.
- The company's success is attributed to market timing, a product that met an underserved need, and a strong team culture.
- A key advantage is the experienced team that has seen other companies fail due to dysfunction, poor processes, and politics.
### **Key Drivers of Success and Customer Focus**
- The top three drivers of success are:
    - **Generating new business:** The market has responded very well to the company's offerings.
    - **Execution and delivery:** Outperforming competitors in delivering critical systems, with fewer issues and outages than the industry average.
    - **Customer investment:** Growing functional areas to be closer to clients, demonstrated by recent hires like Brian Lally for West Virginia and Tabitha Clemons for Kentucky.
- The company's biggest competitive advantage is its people and the culture of teamwork and collaboration.
### **Market Position and Competitive Edge**
- The company is becoming a thought leader in vehicle titling and registration, particularly e-titling and ELT, and aims to be the second-largest player in the market.
- The primary competitor is Fast Enterprises, which the company aims to surpass by offering more capabilities at a lower cost and with faster delivery.
- The company's partnership model, which aligns incentives with the state's success, contrasts with competitors' transactional, time-and-materials consulting models. The Governor of Louisiana noted this approach saved the state $30 million.
- The company has established standards around ELT and introduced a global ELT gateway, simplifying processes for lenders.
- It was the first to deploy AI for vehicle titling and the first to conceive of a national clearinghouse for digital titles.
- The team delivered a solution for New Jersey in 12 months after the state had spent two years just mapping requirements.
### **Business and Commercial Models**
- A paradigm shift is occurring from building software in-house to sourcing capabilities.
- The company’s offering includes change management and relationship-building at no extra charge.
- Flexible funding models are available based on state needs:
    - **SaaS Model:** The primary model, with no upfront cost, focusing on paper transactions.
    - **Buy Option:** States like Louisiana purchase the software, which includes implementation and ongoing support.
    - **Lease/Hybrid Option:** States pay for certain services to lower costs, as seen in West Virginia.
### **Company Growth and Timeline Highlights**
- **2018 Q1:** Launched DTL, which has since been retired and migrated.
- **West Virginia DMV:** A crucial win that enabled subsequent contracts like New Jersey.
- **Illinois:** Fastest deployment at six months, compared to the industry average of 18-24 months.
- **Kentucky:** A complex project due to a simultaneous system modernization.
- **S-10 (Secure Title Exchange Network):** A concept by Dan to create a national network for exchanging title data.
- **Louisiana:** A watershed moment, winning a complete system modernization contract and beating major competitors. This positions the company to offer a full suite of solutions for state agencies.
- **ERT submissions:** Exceeded 10,000 in July, a significant achievement.
### **Platform and Product Landscape**
- The company's approach is adaptable, allowing it to connect to existing systems or replace them entirely.
- The ChampGov platform consists of four suites: Core Agency, Electronic Agency, Digital Agency, and Business Agency services. It includes key modules like the Clerk Portal and the new credentialing capability, IDLS (driver's licenses, state IDs).
- **Platform Services:**
    - **Core Agency Services:** Titling, commercial motor vehicles, credentialing.
    - **Electronic Agency Services:** ELT (Electronic Lien and Title) and ERT (Electronic Registration and Title).
    - **Digital Agency Services:** Digital titles, AI, and the vault.
- **Key Products & Features:**
    - **IDLS:** A mission-critical system, as seen in Louisiana, where it serves as the system of record for numerous other state agencies. It involves significant integration work (over 50-60 points).
    - **Clerk Portal:** Designed with an email-centric layout and an icon-driven, configurable interface.
    - **Clearinghouse:** Being enhanced with new transaction sets based on industry feedback.
    - **Global Locator Registry (GLR):** Covers all entities (lenders, dealers, citizens) and maintains a global identifier to create a single customer view, addressing technical debt in legacy systems.
    - **Global ELT Gateway:** Allows lenders to integrate once to interact with multiple states.
    - **Digital Titles:** West Virginia's digital title is gaining interest, with adoption expected to grow. The digital title launch is a major effort expected to open new markets.
    - **Artificial Intelligence (AI):** A three-level roadmap is planned: process automation, machine learning (OCR), and deep learning for predictive analytics. AI is gaining traction in states like Louisiana and South Carolina.
### **Technology, Architecture, and Data Management**
- The focus is on standardizing a blueprint ("city plan"), a reference architecture, and a canonical data model.
- The architecture includes various web portals (Clerk, Dealer, Citizen) and shared global services like GLR and global invoicing.
- The company leverages commodity platforms like Keycloak and RabbitMQ on AWS.
- A critical Data Warehouse Program (DARS) and a Unified Agency Data Model (UADM) are being implemented, starting with Louisiana.
- Progress has been made in maturing the data program, and the CICS web portal has been launched.
### **Financial Outlook and Business Pipeline**
- The company currently has approximately $44 million in contracted but unearned revenue.
- The pro rata revenue projection is around $19 million.
- The clearinghouse product is estimated to be a $10 million opportunity.
- The total addressable market is estimated to be over $500 million, focusing on titled assets and credentials.
- Significant opportunities exist with West Virginia (driver's license), Connecticut (ERT/ELT), Kansas (ERT/ELT), Arkansas, Illinois, and others.
### **Two-Year Outlook and Project Pipeline**
- Projects are intentionally kept short (6-12 months) to avoid high failure rates. The strategy focuses on incremental modernization.
- **High-Priority Projects:** Louisiana & New Jersey.
- **West Virginia:** The goal is to wrap up the project and transition to a "maintain and enhance" phase in 2026.
- **Rhode Island:** After launching phase one ELT, priorities will be reevaluated, and the project might be slowed to redeploy resources.
- **South Carolina:** The dealer association is interested in the Cade product.
- **Potential Future Projects:** Kansas, Connecticut, Arkansas, and Illinois are dependent on contracts and staffing.
- The plan to deploy a dealer portal was pushed out due to competing priorities.
### **Key Investment Areas and 2025 Priorities**
- The company’s core focus is to be the best GovTech SaaS company for state agencies, concentrating on titling and credentials.
- Investment is needed in: Product Management, Enterprise Architecture (EA), Client Activation/Adoption, Client Service, Data Management, and InfoSec.
- Specific improvements include building test areas, establishing an architecture review board, investing in CICD, and formalizing the InfoSec role to ensure high levels of DRC controls.
- The roadmap includes expanding into business operational services, commercial motor vehicles (IRP/IFTA), and back-office functions like appointment scheduling.
- The goal is to exceed $100+ million in ARR.
### **People, Process, and Culture**
- The "four P's" (People, Process, Product, Policy) must work together.
- Emphasis is placed on teamwork and direct communication over email to resolve conflicts.
- The company plans to hire around 30 people over the next 12 months, creating leadership opportunities based on results, not tenure.
- Investment in employee growth will include leadership training, skill-specific training, and conference attendance.
- A need to improve domain knowledge was identified, with a goal to carve out time for learning and shadowing.
- Open communication is encouraged, with employees urged to share concerns directly with leadership. Culture is seen as the critical factor for achieving the company's goals.
## Next Arrangements
- [ ] Chris to send out a survey to the group for feedback.
- [ ] Chris will send out a product summit survey to gather feedback.
- [ ] The speaker will provide the presentation slides to the attendees.
- [ ] Get the link to Governor Landry's talk about the company's impact in Louisiana.
- [ ] Continue to build out a roadmap for the AI features based on user feedback.
- [ ] Finalize the integration plan with Ademia for producing physical credential cards (portraits, signatures).
- [ ] Deploy an ERP solution in the future to manage financial data, as QuickBooks will become insufficient.
- [ ] Continue to expand reusable component libraries (e.g., Champ Sign, DocViewer).
- [ ] [Insert more]
## AI Suggestions
> **AI Suggestions**
> AI has identified the following issues that were not concluded in the meeting or lack clear action items; please pay attention:
> 1. While the potential of the clearinghouse product is estimated at $10 million, there was no clear action plan or timeline discussed for achieving this goal.
> 2. Plans to replace legacy systems in New Jersey, pursue Phase Two work in Illinois and New Jersey, and deploy a dealer portal were mentioned as future possibilities but lack concrete strategies or timelines.
> 3. Expansion into new service areas like commercial motor vehicles (IRP/IFTA) and business operational services was mentioned for the roadmap, but no specific plans for building, partnering, or acquiring these capabilities were detailed.
> 4. Pending legislation in Kentucky is required to support the Global ELT gateway, but specific actions to support or track this were not defined.
> 5. The dashboarding feature for the vehicle view has been pushed out due to competing priorities, and a new timeline was not established.
> 6. The plan to develop native mobile apps for the citizen portal (MyDNBGov) is a long-term goal without a specified timeline or criteria for revisiting it.
> 7. The decision to potentially slow down the Rhode Island project is pending a reevaluation after the phase one ELT launch.
> 8. The need to improve domain knowledge was identified, but specific plans for "carving out time" for learning were not established.
> 9. The need to formalize the InfoSec role is under consideration by leadership, but a final decision and timeline have not been set.