Transcript from2026-01-22T14:25:48Z
Speaker 1 00:00:03
so this relates directly to all of you but keep in mind that future hires probably won't be able to access them the way you should so hopefully this is accretive to your bottom line as we continue to grow as a company but one of the ways we get measured is what is our growth of the underlying contracts that we have so I'm going to show you a slide really good view sort of carnal knowledge of what each contract is worth and talk about where the business is.
Speaker 1 00:00:33
going as a function of that but let me back up to the round so the round was we raised 55 million dollars some of that was debt some of that was equity so think of it this way equity is is nice but it dilutes everybody so if you had a share and now there's more shareholders than you know everybody has a little bit less, So it's good because there's less risk with equity. They don't get to tell you what to do.
Speaker 1 00:01:04
because you sold them something in exchange for their money. You gave them shares, but you get diluted. On the other side, debt, nobody gets diluted, but then you take the risk that if you fuck it all up, they get to come take your company. So woo, debt. This is why you should run up your own credit card debt. It's ultimately a bad thing. And so the key is balancing that we don't take too much of one or the other. So in this round, it was sort of split basically equally.
Speaker 1 00:01:36
In total, it was $55 million. So the good news, bad news about that is that it sounds like a ton of money. And it is. It's a good bit of money. However, remember, there's 118 of us now, and we're still growing the revenue that we already booked last year and the year prior and the year prior to that, even. It takes a while for the revenue to scale. So we want to be cognizant of how we spend frugally and how we're thoughtful with what we let out the door and not get wooed by what sounds like a very big headline number, right?
Speaker 1 00:02:13
So that might sound like me hedging so we don't spend too much. That's exactly what it is. And so let me back into the valuation. So this is the part that I don't think a lot of companies share, but it's important to me to be transparent. So what's never going to be seen publicly, and I just want to remind everybody here, you're all obligated to continue to be confidential. One of the things that's really important is that we are confidential. Our competitors are watching every little thing we do. They show up at our meetings.
Speaker 1 00:02:43
I was reminded last night. One of our competitors not only is mimicking with whom we advertise by advertising the exact same places. I made a quote in the press about how we are not Blockbuster, we're more like Netflix. So what did they do in their most recent marketing piece? They talked about how they're not Blockbuster. They can't even come up with their own fucking lines. It's crazy. But that's how far ahead we are of everybody else, and we have to stay that way.
Speaker 1 00:03:14
So, back to the confidentiality part. This is the part we don't normally share. You're not going to find it in the press. The company was valued at $355 million with the last round. So that's a good number. But let's go through the history. So we started the company, my co-founder and I, who many of you know, he's not here anymore. We bought him out of the company a few years ago when he decided to pursue politics. And we started the company at basically zero.
Speaker 1 00:03:45
Raise the first round at about $30 million, raise the next round at $70 million, raise the next round at $140 million, and then raise this round at $355 million. So you might say, well, those numbers sound kind of arbitrary, but what they all tie to is basically our total contract value. So when we raised the round at $30 million, we basically had West Virginia. When we raised the round at $70 million, West Virginia is worth about $40-$50 million in total over the 10 years that we'll have the contract.
Speaker 1 00:04:21
So raise the $30 million, contracts worth $40 or $50, they're kind of similar numbers. When we raised it $70, we had about $75-$80 million of contract value over the 10 year period. We raised $140, we had $150 million of contract value. Everybody getting the theme? So we raised it $355. Anyone want to take a guess? How much did we have as total contract value at that point? It's not hard. Oh, very close. $355. It was exactly the amount of total contract value that we had.
Speaker 1 00:04:56
So, now we can go to the next slide. Alright, so this is hard to see. We're welcome to go through it together later. West Virginia has a $50 million value over the 10-year period that we should have the deal. New Jersey, Phase 1, $40 million. Kentucky, $118 million. Illinois, $60 million. That's Illinois, Phase 1. Rhode Island, $27 million. Louisiana, $54 million. And now Kansas, $30 million.
Speaker 1 00:05:27
So, you're probably saying, wait a minute, that's $385 million. Why did you say $355 million? Because we did the deal for the fundraising round before we signed Kansas. So, did I say Kansas City? So, the first six are $355 million of total contract value. I'm going to show you next how we're doing relative to achieving each of those contracts and where we're succeeding and where we're growing and where we have work to do.
Speaker 1 00:05:59
But, before I get there, we need to be on this path to get to a billion of total contract value. That's not because the company needs to be worth a billion. It's because what happens at that stage is it opens up a huge swath of different opportunities to us. We can go after different verticals, different agencies. We can buy competitors. We can cross borders we couldn't cross before. All sorts of options open up.
Speaker 1 00:06:30
But none of us, including me, need to focus on what we can do when we get to that point. What we need to focus on is the discipline and rigor that it takes to get there. If we focus on how to get to a billion of total contract value, and then we're executing behind that, we'll achieve something that I don't think any software company, at least in this part of the country, has really ever done. Not at the pace that we're doing it. Others have gotten big, but not at the pace. So, let's go one more forward. Thank you.
Speaker 1 00:07:02
Okay, so, on this slide, what we're showing, I realize it's a little hard to see, there's a bit of a glare, so I'm going to walk you through what's on there. I show for each state two bars. The bar on the left is how much the contract has worked over the 10-year period. The bar on the right is if you take our annualized revenue, multiply it by 10, what our level of achievement is relative to each contract. So, West Virginia. First deal, we're doing great. We're right at the level we should be at.
Speaker 1 00:07:34
New Jersey, it's a little bit off. We've got some ground to make up there with some lenders that are giving us a little bit of a hiccup, and the state's not holding a firm hand to all of the lenders to use the system the way we should, but we can get there. And you look at Kentucky, and you say, well, wait, what's going on there? I'm going to get more on that in a minute. But what I will tell you is that, that's our big source of growth. So if Tabitha calls you, make her fucking call. That's important.
Speaker 1 00:08:05
We need to go get that money, and we can get it. It's our money. Illinois, we're on a really good path there. We're growing, but we need to pass a law to make sure that we get the mandate for utilization in that state, and that's why Bo and LT aren't here today. They're not only pushing on that right now in Illinois, but they're working on the next phase, because this is phase one, trying to get phase two. Rhode Island, it's a zero right now. Why? They haven't turned it on. We don't know if we're going to get all the value out of it,
Speaker 1 00:08:35
so we need to work really hard to make sure that not only do we sign the contracts, because it's one thing to sign them, it's another thing to deliver behind it. So it starts by us signing the contracts, and then it next goes to delivering behind it, and we haven't delivered there yet. That's why it's a zero. It'll start to grow as we launch that. Louisiana, totally different contract. We actually don't get paid on transactions there. They pay us based on delivery metrics.
Speaker 1 00:09:05
So the good news is we've met all the delivery metrics so far. They are making the payments on time. I'm presuming in this chart that they continue to do that, and Abby and Ian are looking at me like, yeah, we hope so too. And so as they're beating a path down there so often that Delta started calling us wondering why we're going to Baton Rouge all the time. We expect that we'll get full delivery there because of not only our great delivery, but also the way the contract's written. And Kansas, which we just signed, and should be worth the full amount, again, we didn't start delivering it yet, so it's still a zero right now.
Speaker 1 00:09:43
So if you look at the gap between the bars on the left for each state and the bars on the right, that's what we can go capture over the next year or two in each of these states. And that's what supports our revenue growth, because some of the contracts we signed just recently really won't pay off until 2027 or 2028. It's really important to sign them, but they don't start generating revenue for a year or two. These can all generate revenue right away. And so let me show you what happened recently in Kentucky.
Speaker 1 00:10:17
So Russ, thank you. All right, so here's an example. So Kentucky, before June 1st of last year, was doing a little over a million or so if you annualize the revenue then since June it's now almost or a little bit over two and a half million so we've more than doubled the realization of what we can get out of that contract and I expect that that will continue to climb on that like sort of hockey sticks scale right it was going really slow at first and then around June it.
Speaker 1 00:10:52
started to skyrocket well what happened to that well one thing we hired tablet, And so we had eyes looking at what we were doing really closely and bird-dogging everybody in the state to get after it. And then we had responsive teams internally, because it's not just Tabitha, it's the whole team contributed, whether it was Katie running reports and figuring out the data, whether it was the technical team re-engineering some things to work around the really shitty system that the state had us try to talk to that's still not great,
Speaker 1 00:11:22
whether it was Ian solving for some of the problems in the state and figuring out how to work around some of the things that were problematic with Tyler, our partner there, or it was just our own problems that we had to go solve. And we were focused on all of a sudden we doubled the revenue in that state in six months. We can do that again and again and again. And you saw that chart. That's our one example of this place where we can grow revenue. And so having that focus on...
Speaker 1 00:11:53
Working together and having and like I say here like one person can make a difference It's not just Tabitha. She was one person in her department But there was one person in multiple departments who really stepped up and collectively, You know seven, eight, nine people that were ultimately, Really behind in that till they get to the next level are what made this happen And now you've got Quinn who's working on with Tabitha working on passing a law to make sure that the law that we need change in the state changes so that the.
Speaker 1 00:12:26
Utilization has to go up so they're legally forced to use it in a different way So all of these things work together But each the number of people it took wasn't just one but each person is one within their department that made the difference That changes the company enormously because it's one thing for us to sign the contract and get valued the way we got valued in The round it's a whole another thing when we start to, deliver, When we start to deliver on these things consistently, and we've done West Virginia consistently,
Speaker 1 00:12:57
we're doing New Jersey consistently, we're starting to get Illinois, when we get Kentucky and Rhode Island, Louisiana and Kansas, and then the next several states that the team is out trying to sign right now, when we deliver on those consistently, it changes everything. And I know many of you have been here for a short period of time, and some of you have been here for seven years, if you're Dan or Ian or Joanna. Dan and many in between, but I've said this all along since we started,
Speaker 1 00:13:30
it's one thing to work at a company when it's an idea, it's a whole other thing to work on it when you start getting clients, it's a whole other thing when you start achieving, really fast growth, and it's a whole other thing when you start achieving, sort of ridiculous amounts of profitability, which is the power of the company. so that's the thing that can bring so much fulfillment i think to each of you to know that you're contributing to this but we have to continue to work together as a team to go do it it's hard this is going to really hurt and so i'm really proud of the growth we had i'm really proud.
Speaker 1 00:14:01
of the fact that we signed it i'm going to be twice as proud when we're doing this next year, at maybe the same venue or a bigger venue because there'll be more of us but talking about how we achieved all of the growth that was available to us this year and so 2026 is our year, of taking the advantage of what we've already signed and delivering so with that who's next.
Speaker 2 00:14:59
working. I'm sure Bo was really sad that he didn't get to know, but one thing I did want to see.
Speaker 2 00:15:32
as we work to our future vision of our product suite of products that we can, there's a lot and really going out and working to one thing, call it, but there's no way we're going to be accomplishing. So what's really important is that we can make sure that we're, so one thing I wanted to share a little bit of, actually, Shane, I was hoping that you were going to have an analogy of each, because I think every two talks, but for those of you that created an album and to make sure that some days I feel like, but other days, but I personally love being able to paint stories. I think that is so slightly different, but really about building the logic, what we need to realize.
Speaker 2 00:17:02
rocket ship. We have our destination, maybe all fifth jurisdiction someday, but what we need is that launch. It's gotten us here today incredible, but it's not going to get us to a point where we got it. So 2026 is going to be a lot about scaling and a lot about dating. This is scalable, do a lot.
Speaker 2 00:17:39
more. So we have 2026, again, and then one is really to launch in our strategic offering. We've been talking a lot about digital titles and these are some really strategic and it's so there's going to be a huge of getting that into our proving the value. And so that second pillar is really all about product repeatable. Right. We're building things like our unified agency data model, a plugin or GLR, all of this stuff that's really going to be foundation deliver without having really about transitioning to our agenda. Again, what we.
Speaker 2 00:19:08
There's no way that we're going to come up. So as we work on a Generation 2 application, that we can build so that when we go to the next state, a lot less. And then finally, the last pillar is really about, you know. 
Speaker 3 00:19:44
over the next year, really what we're looking to develop over the week, we're seeing more functionality.
Speaker 3 00:20:27
and, you know, stand on both ends, but also delivering on that idea to the person that that idea, you know, while we look in, as we're making it so that we can keep the level of agility we've been able to get to, and you invest those you need, continue to be able.
Speaker 3 00:21:04
to fail fast, or sort of minimize it.
Speaker 2 00:21:27
So a big part of that really is we've been working for bugs and that team, so a lot of.
Speaker 2 00:22:05
what we're doing. a lot and that design you know they being able to and the only thing i'll add like these charts.
Speaker 3 00:22:41
you'll see them they will change like if we win these charts like by necessity will change because we'll be bigger and we'll have different problems we'll have different offerings and so the way that i think about this we can put in the structure in place how we decide what that isn't we support tabitha as quickly as we can when she calls and so she's not even to figure out who the right person is to put that.
Speaker 3 00:23:13
continue to grow don't feel it just how you work and decorate that structure so that so that as we.
Speaker 2 00:23:25
transition it doesn't feel as there's a lot of really great things that we only didn't want step away with really celebrate so the team has worked our two teams we have which we have done.
Speaker 2 00:24:07
a good amount of our state. I know that team has worked with dealers. Dealers are begging to do this a lot to make sure that we're a product out to citizens.
Speaker 2 00:25:15
they were going to be needs another great thing that i spend really often as a team.
Speaker 2 00:26:15
we've also graded a lot we'll start to de-risk launch it now it wasn't mk now in the testing day.
Speaker 4 00:27:33
Before we get to one of the collineation points where Mary's doing, we'll continue doing the integration side of it, the client-facing.
Speaker 4 00:28:37
I realize talking to Fred a lot is too much, but generally with delivery, Shane did a great job of that. What I do want to highlight is kind of what has changed with training, right? They have all these things in a lot of it.
Speaker 4 00:29:10
So what I wanted to do, like what Chris and Dean decided, how they get to accept change, know change is kind of about it. We'll quote from a wonderful video put together to basically introduce the end of that we're doing. I don't know what the changes are.
Speaker 5 00:33:04
Follow that.
Speaker 6 00:33:25
I'm going to do something a little bit different. Everybody, stand up.
Speaker 5 00:33:29
One clap if you put a standing ovation.
Speaker 6 00:33:56
I had a 26-year career in automotive. I tried to retire. I got a call from Shane, and he said, I don't think you can retire. And I was like, I'm retiring. My father had passed away, so it was him for my family. And I took a little time off, and then Shane came up. Amen.
Speaker 6 00:34:28
Two years ago, I came in as a consultant, and I started working for Champ. And Shane and I have had a long relationship, and he used to call me and tell me what he was doing with Champ. And I told him, you know, 16 years with Enterprise, I retired from Enterprise. What I learned in this industry is that there's some archaic, bad-type video. It's true. Like, it's going on in this industry that we still have a paper title.
Speaker 6 00:35:00
You can buy a house at a $5-10 million house and never touch paper. But to get a $10,000 used car, you've got to get a paper title. That doesn't make sense. And so when Shane was telling me what he was doing, it really sat with me that we've got something here that's changing. you click. One of the things for me is your why. What's your purpose? So my why of why I came here,
Speaker 6 00:35:33
I literally, I don't tell you that I was going to retire to impress you at all, but to impress upon you. I came out of retirement. I wanted to do this job after a year of consulting. It made so much sense to me that we're going to change an industry. So my why, my purpose, I want to make money. Everyone, we all love money, I'm sure. I'm sure you're here for your kids or family or for another purpose. Having a purpose and your why and what is important to you is why I came.
Speaker 6 00:36:09
back because I know we're going to be a name that people are going to know in a century. We are going to change what is happening with the examples of estates that we're already in. But to me, that's, my why. I came back for that. And also because my other why is I like to win. And anyone on the NBTC team will tell you that's a big part of who I am. And some people are like, winning.
Speaker 6 00:36:41
competition, you hear, do you hate it or do you love to win? I hate to lose. I love to win. And, the way that we win at Champ, the theme of today is team, right? You've heard it from all the speakers so far. And Jane said it. Every little account, we have to be a team. We hired so many people in the last month or two. It's incredible to look at. But our role, each and every one of.
Speaker 6 00:37:18
you, and so when I put up there a leadership, it's the best definition of leadership. leadership I've ever heard. Why? Because a lot of people think they're not that, oh, I'm just an individual contributor. That is not the case. Every single one of you has the ability to, you're in a meeting, you're whiteboarding something, you're throwing ideas out there. Leadership is about influence. Now, we have a hierarchy of decisions, but each and every one of you have an opportunity to shift an influence. And if we're going to achieve some of the goals that Shane put up there, we're going to. So don't think of yourself as an individual.
Speaker 6 00:38:07
contributor. Each one of you, every day when you walk through this, you have a role to be a leader. You're going to have influence, and we want you to have it. We're not a startup. We are a company, but we're also not a company that, You get in line, you know, and you come in and you do your roll and you walk out. We won't succeed. So why is the last word up there? Lagnap. A Cajun French word.
Speaker 6 00:38:39
Anybody know what it means? Nobody's studied up on the Cajun French? So Lagnap, a little extra gift. An unexpected tech definition of it, but it's used in Louisiana as somebody that does all. So when you think about what you're doing to the door and what your purpose is, the goal to be a leader in this company, if we want to win every single crowd, put in a little.
Speaker 6 00:39:17
If we do that, do the little thing, we will achieve together. And the best example of that is what I'm a big sports person. What Indian just did to win a national championship. They were three, and they got a new head coach, and they got new players. Every single person, they interviewed anybody, not just Mendoza, the quarterback, but they interviewed all of the different players.
Speaker 6 00:39:48
They didn't talk about me or what they did. They talked about what they did. And so you can go from 16-0 to a championship for you. So champ, we're in the same position. We're the little guy, but we can be the big guys. And there's a lot of competitors out there that don't want to see us. We do the little things, we will succeed. A yes, we might get some no's, but we're going to make that path to the yes, like Shane said.
Speaker 6 00:40:24
I appreciate you giving me that time. I'm going to transition into the next slide, which gave me a little update on the digital titling, MDTC. They say it a lot. It's hard to roll off your tongue. So if you click to the next one. If you don't know, there are some in the room. If you don't know, the governor at the time, Shane, they had a great idea that how can we.
Speaker 6 00:40:56
take our commercial, the commercial int of West and make it for them to from any other and we do it in . So the product is brilliant. We have some competitors. out there that try to tell that they've got the state vaccine. For that reason, we figured out the team how to market them to go to. Two years ago, we had 9,900 transactions. And I think West Virginia was even confident we wanted to keep this open. We brought in a new team to structure the process and activate clients. And lo and behold, 79,000 transactions. So it's 700% growth in one year. When you think we're scratching the surface, we put.
Speaker 6 00:42:14
a big foundation for next year. We want to be overturning our transactions. Our space has been very successful. We've been very good at knocking on the doors of lenders. So the repossession side of it has gone bonkers. That's great. We don't want to be so. It's good for insurance. It's good for dealers, the fleet.
Speaker 6 00:42:44
So this year, we really, and we've got Copart, we have IAA, and we're trying to run the salvage and insurance. We are going to develop their client base this year. Really, in 2020, that's one of our big goals. Obviously, we're going to help all of our states where we have a core system through the NDTC.
Speaker 6 00:43:23
AI help them in the decision-making of these transactions, then West Virginia doesn't continue to hire a third guy to fill up the volume, and they won't do that. We've got to make, not only for the NETC, valuable. Our goal is to get the rejection rate below 5%. The team has worked really, really, really hard.
Speaker 6 00:43:53
Matt, both, Zabed, and Sarah, Donald, and Jill, everybody in terms of the occasion, clients, and our prospects, the way that we bring them on. We can't afford transactions going back every day. It takes people what they should be. And with that, our growth and what we've done, the main reason is the team. they absolutely every day come in and everyone has a role of what they're doing everyone plays.
Speaker 6 00:44:32
more than just i think if you talk to anyone involved they would when someone drops somebody, else before that to you guys an amazing 25. a little shout and all came in line.
Speaker 6 00:45:09
we clicked to the next slide one of the roles um i'm going to be undertaking, shane talked about the excitement of the different things that were. We've grown so fast. LT and Libby and Jeff, the amount of work they're doing to get these states the monumental activate and onboard a state. We've done it, been a chicken with a cut off, but we're going to change that. So we're going to start putting some processes. I'm going to interview a lot of you, a lot of questions, and nobody's in trouble. So give me true answers. We're really trying to put some process around. We win a state and we onboard them and we activate them. Now we have those. I'm not saying that we're going to do it. We're going to do it.
Speaker 6 00:46:12
We don't do that today. We need to make sure that we're building something that's scalable and that when we win a state, everyone knows this is. go down the path we've got to do it in a more efficient manner we've done um we're growing very fast so having the transition from the startup everyone's running now we're, startup phase and we have to have some fun so in my lives i've i've done a lot of this.
Speaker 6 00:46:48
with that sorry i was speaking to a slide that hard so um you know we're gonna we're really gonna look at focusing on how we onboard we're gonna find roles and responsibilities we're, going to learn everything that we do it's not set as we've got to be able to have flexibility if i do.
Speaker 6 00:47:27
answer. I'm looking very in this area. I don't know who's next up, but I appreciate your time. 
Speaker 5 00:47:38
and I look forward to breaking some bread here soon. Thanks, Brian. My name is Lydia Nelhus. I'm.
Speaker 7 00:47:52
a Relationships Manager. So for those of you who are basically, so we're responsible in a pretty robust pipeline, state opportunity, as well as myself, LT, Jeff, Quinn, and we've got some new additions. LT, Shane mentioned before.
Speaker 7 00:48:26
be here today selling so I know that he's really fun with the team so as of today we are in seven states collectively I want to find out this is a pretty significant market share considering the, age of camp you know there's a lot of our professors who have been in the industry really.
Speaker 7 00:48:57
you know I feel like you hear this phrase a lot in tech but we are really just brought this quote. uh 2025 was a pretty good year we closed two new contracts in New Jersey and our Louisiana Olympia is the broadest scope of any of our.
Speaker 7 00:49:27
which of course is really exciting to have this. It also opens up a lot more and allows us to more effectively, such as FAFSA. Additionally, if we need our timeline for that delivery of the Louisiana system within 12 months, this will be about the quickest, fastest to deploy.
Speaker 7 00:49:58
It's much longer than that, so their name is pretty ironic, although they are. But I think that's an important follow-up. The 12-month time is money, especially when it comes to here. We responded to two of our reporters. and the second was Carolina, both the vehicle and driver systems.
Speaker 7 00:50:32
Both of those states are still helping. The states like to work on their own, right? So looking ahead to 2026, first contracting of the state is great, but I was always like, okay, well, what's next? So we are looking to close three new state contracts and secure testing. We have about 10 to 12 states that abide the state pipeline, so we're hopeful to act on that.
Speaker 7 00:51:08
We are also planning on continuing to add new talented team members to my ATAR, and I've been at CHAMP three years. The additions of Jeff Bispaul. new folks, it had predominantly been LT, me, and Clint, so it's been really cool to see the team double, which really enables us to give the state opportunity the time that it needs.
Speaker 7 00:51:38
We're also working to pass critical legislation into our state, Rhode Island and Kentucky, and to also motivate and nurture the envy, their power to manage, of course, this kind of activation to change. Our last priority in 2026 is to continue to standardize our team. Again, Brian touched on this, it's really important for us to continue to standardize.
Speaker 7 00:52:12
This will allow us to maximize the efficiencies of our efforts, to refine our RFP responses and submit more competitive bids, and to also reduce the fail cycle and capture new data. Signing with the state can take months to years, so the more we can shorten that time.
Speaker 8 00:52:51
Okay, so I am the security at CHAMP. My name is Brenton Witonski. Yes, it is true, I have been struck by lightning twice. I'm not going to tell those stories, but maybe sometime tonight you can give me those crazy stories. One was really crazy, one was not really that crazy. A lot of people saw it, so it's kind of cool in that fashion. So, why I am here, my focus at CHAMP is really to secure and protect.
Speaker 8 00:53:24
To secure and protect our company, to secure and protect CHAMP, our customers, and really at the end of the day, each of you, each of us, to protect us and keep us secure. And I also want to make sure that in the process of that, I'm enabling the business. I'm not a blocker to the business or a cost to the business. I want to really enable the business that we have and make sure we're able to do that not only effectively and efficiently, but securely. And I'm really encouraged being here just over the last couple of months, being in the office, seeing the optimism at CHAMP. I'm telling you, it is very much a unicorn being here, this company, of how excited and optimistic everyone is.
Speaker 8 00:54:07
Brent held that wonderful thing yesterday where there was so much collaboration and good conversation and excitement around that, and I think that is fantastic. I'm really looking forward to working with each of you. And I really stress each of you because security is a team sport. It is a team activity. It's not something that I am only going to focus on or Alex Bester is only going to focus on. It is really something that every one of us will play a critical role in in securing our customers and really ourselves.
Speaker 8 00:54:40
Because it matters. It matters because it only takes one security incident to deeply damage our reputation or to cause great financial impact that also impacts negatively what we are going, what we are doing. And the worst thing would be that it would destroy, in some cases, or hinder the trust our customers place in Champ. We want every customer, everyone we talk to, to know that they are safe.
Speaker 8 00:55:13
with CHAMP, that whatever they do with us is safe. And so it's really important that we are all vigilant when it comes to phishing emails or our passwords being strong or physical security, making sure that we're popping in, making sure that the doors stay locked so that the files work, right? All of those things matter to each of us, and we all contribute to that. We are here to enable that, to help that. So if you have any questions, if you have any concerns, I've always had so many great conversations already.
Speaker 8 00:55:44
about things that we need to be looking at, that's my contact, Brenton Witonski, and I think most of you know Alex Bester by this time. You can reach out to us, talk to us. So I want to talk real quick about one major initiative that we have for 2026 that I hope everyone will become familiar with over this year, and that is GoBrand. So Shane mentioned when he was talking about how we are ahead and we need to stay there. This, I believe, is one of the critical ways in which we, from a security standpoint, are going to stay ahead.
Speaker 8 00:56:19
Stay ahead in our industry, stay ahead of our competitors. So just real briefly, GovRAMP is a security control framework. If you heard the words SOC 2, GDPR, NIST, ISO, those kinds of things, they're security frameworks that basically allow us to say we are secure and GovRAMP is one that is recognized by our states. And I really believe that having GovRAMP authorized status is going to accelerate our growth and potentially even open new doors of growth in a lot of these states that we are trying to get into.
Speaker 8 00:56:54
It's going to be a differentiator against all of our competitors. And I really want us, I want CHAMP to be the leader in this space so that when we go to states, we say, who do you trust? You trust us because we are secure and we have this proof. And so it's going to be a journey. Many of us are going to be involved in that. And so throughout this year, you're going to see some things. You're going to see some changes in the way that you potentially log into applications and the way that you focus in some of your engineering and working on the products.
Speaker 8 00:57:28
But you're going to see some of those. But I want you to know that it is an extreme value to CHAMP and where we are going. And it's going to help us to stay ahead of everyone around us, all of our competitors. And so I'm going to leave you with this. If I have a chance to talk to the entire company at once, I'm going to at least always leave you with one security thought. And so my security thought that I want to leave everyone with is about we get links every single day,
Speaker 8 00:57:58
whether it's in e-mails, texts, IMs, and Slack. And before... I guess coming to Champ, if you ever met me on the street or saw me on vacation, a lot of times people find out I'm in security, they ask me, what's one thing I should know to be secure? And I always tell people, never click a link. If you never click a link, you will bypass about 80% of the security threats that are out there against consumers and individuals today. But I realized, being at Champ, I'm not going to be able to never click a link. There are a lot of links that we get every day. So I kind of pivoted a little bit, and I thought about it, and this is the thought that I want to leave you with. Always think before you click a link. Always think about it.
Speaker 8 00:58:46
And I thought about it, let's just count to five. If you're about to, if you get an email, if you get a text, if you get a Slack, just count to five before you click that link, and I want you to think about this. Was I expecting a link? And is it? From a trusted source. Right? None of us should get an email with a very legitimate link that says important from Shane in the subject line. Okay? I think we've all, I've gotten like five or six in the last week. Right? Maybe Tabitha will get a very important email from Shane about clicking the link. But none of us should click links that we don't know who they're from or about. Is there any urgency? Right? Is there some, you know, you only got an hour to click this or I need this now. Right? A lot of those are tactics to try to get you to click a link and do something.
Speaker 8 00:59:36
Wrong. And it only takes one link click to compromise. And so hover over that link is another one. If you can hover over that link and see if there's anything weird about it. Does the little pop up of where the link's going not match what it says it's going? What is that? Look at that. Just kind of analyze it a little bit. And here's the big one. Do you even have. If you don't have to click the link, I would say go to the source, go to JIRA, look up the.
Speaker 8 01:00:07
task, look up what you're wanting to do rather than clicking the link. It will allow you to be more safe. And like I said, my goal in this is not to make sure we never click a link. We're going to have to click links. But please think about that link before you click it because it only takes one click to, completely find it. So thank you everybody. I am super excited about being a champ and I'm looking forward to 2006. It's going to be amazing.
Speaker 5 01:00:30
Well, I wanted to make one quick addition.
Speaker 7 01:00:40
Rattling off my team, I forgot to include Miguel. We've been a champ many, many months, but he is now, I blame my hatred on presenting. I wanted to say that.
Speaker 9 01:01:02
All right team, if you'll bear with us, we're to the end. I think everyone knows by now I'm in a lead HR. I'd like to invite the two team members of Sarah Wood State real quick. Sarah contracts with us. If you're a new hire since September, you're more than likely interacting with her. She's doing a fun job.
Speaker 9 01:01:39
Everyone I think as well knows Bella. You did your onboard for your pre-employment. Everyone's been talking about growth today. I really like this slide just because it truly makes us pause. As Shane said earlier, Brian, that team is doubled in size and it's really exciting to have everybody, but the next phase of the journey, how do we get integrated and more business? I don't think we have to dive deep here, but we have the journey. And then a lot of people have asked me around the recruiting process. Shane emphasizes it's really hard to get a job at Chan. I'm proud of that. This is the journey that all of you went through to get here and anybody we hire in the future, this is our current process.
Speaker 9 01:02:52
I just wanted to share this because some of the timing is aspirational, but I think it emphasizes all the steps that we have to go through. then the engineering team right now is tweaking this a little bit to add some more technical, steps we're excited that getting a little more formal some things that everyone should be really proud of a little bit of a celebratory slide but um one shane and ryan the board made a decision.
Speaker 9 01:03:28
this year again to absorb benefit call i know all of many of you have family the political topic right now but it's also a dollar topic healthcare continues to get more expensive and i really think everybody should pause a minute and just think about the fact the organization was able for a, consecutive year to absorb our premium increases it's a really exciting benefit and it's a differentiator when we're talking to people outside the company, I'm super excited to promote that.
Speaker 9 01:03:60
We also formalized parental leave to differentiate it from our unlimited PTO policy. We are moving forward with a parental leave of six weeks fully paid, and that's exciting as well. So quick round of applause. We had a successful open enrollment that just closed in January, and then I think everybody has really celebrated the office this week. I know I'm really excited about the office.
Speaker 9 01:04:31
I'm really proud to promote it. You can see all the things that the organization has provided. Upgrade, we'll continue to look at ways to do that. The expansion was official the first week of October, and I think everyone realizes right off the bat what 2.0 looks like. of you and.
Speaker 9 01:05:01
And then here's some other things we've changed since in the last quarter just from an HR lens. So I'm going through listening sessions again, as Brian Calloway said, his meetings, there's no hint of an agenda and neither is mine. I learned through all of you and by listening to you to promote ways we can make this a better program. Shane's serious about that. Ryan's serious about that, our executive.
Speaker 9 01:05:36
And then also lunch and learns. These are just little micro events that we host either virtually or live and offer to everybody. They're not mandatory, but they're ways you can upskill, skill build, connect with your team members. So we'll continue with those into this quarter. And then obviously Shane is very serious in the leadership team about getting involved. doing what's great these are some of the examples from a service at that point that we'll march.
Speaker 9 01:06:08
forward into next week all of you will be receiving an email so this one as brenton just said is one that you should and it will come from an organization asking for about five minutes of your time to give us feedback it's part of the top place to work surveys we were a winner in 2025. you can see it will come up next week i'll have this slide and i'll send out an announcement.
Speaker 9 01:06:42
as well so you all know it's legitimate again it's bubble answers, take five minutes please be honest feedback's anonymous and again it's another way for feedback to make decisions this year on it for all. Some other exciting measurements I wanted to share with you is we don't have an applicant tracking system. Most of you probably came from an organization that's purposed that decision.
Speaker 9 01:07:13
early on. We've been using LinkedIn, our partner in hiring, because it integrates with what we're doing from a marketing standpoint, from a community standpoint, what Joanna and Taylor and all of our clients are facing. We might get big enough that we'll make a different choice, but right now I wanted to share some metrics that are somewhat integrated. So you can see last year in 2025, and I'm sorry, this side's a little small, but are we at almost 20,000 company page views? Our total followers increased from just over 12 to 27,000, more than 100% growth in.
Speaker 9 01:07:54
our followers. Employee profile views, meaning people looking at all of you, was over 36,000 and that created 1.35 million impressions. What's that mean? Basically any time Champ was involved in a viral click, and the reason that's important is free media value. So at some point, I'll ask LinkedIn to try to put a numeric figure on that, but Taylor's in the room and she could probably give a better number. Hundreds of thousands of dollars that we would have to pay marketing in order to promote the organization. The more we do it organically.
Speaker 9 01:08:34
And then lastly, we did some things where, and you probably, you didn't see it because you can't be an employee, but if someone went to your page, looked at your profile, I paid LinkedIn to put a little one-inch ad on the right corner. It drives people immediately to all of our work. So we might look at doing that again because of the phase of growth we're going. But it was just a very low cost, the added dollars, but it drives incremental.
Speaker 9 01:09:06
And so those are some different things that we're doing in order to attract all this great talent that we're hiring. Lastly, the other thing is this morning, I just want to recognize all of you for taking headshots seriously. First of all, many of you look fantastic, all of you. And then the reason we brought Brittany in is, one, from a security lens. We're growing to the point where at some point you'll have visual identity.
Speaker 9 01:09:41
But then number two, also to give you the opportunity, whether you're speaking at a community event, commercial event, or if you just want to look better on your social media. that is the reason for the headshots and one of the lunch and learns that's coming up is, linkedin is going to host a private session on hacking your profile so if any of you are interested in learning how to use social media presenting your brand socially better there will be an event so i recommend and then lastly if you want a qr code great if not just go to our.
Speaker 9 01:10:18
landing page and hit jobs these are our current openings at sarah and so again our best way to hire talent is employer can think of people at your former employers and what i always recommend is don't think about the people that may be interested in making a job change think about the people that are the rock who are the top performers in your former employers even if you didn't get along with them i'd like their name sarah would like their name and we'll go soak up the joint champ because we want to hire them not just people.
Speaker 9 01:10:50
that way. so with that i'm going to turn it back to shane who's going to recognize matt real quick to thank.
Speaker 1 01:11:07
everybody that was involved in setting this up today because this is uh our biggest one ever so.
Speaker 9 01:11:11
matt absolutely so first let's just start with ryan and shane because they thought from a financial end that this week meant enough thanks for waiting for this you stand up big of an audience so uh it's been a great venue so thank you for all the coordination and then i know jenna also helped.
Speaker 9 01:11:45
with a lot of today so thank you jenna. another shout out to her she was instrumental in the planning and then lastly we don't recognize john i call them the organization i find me on a daily basis with all my bad humor and, bad ideas and then the audio visual all the tech on a daily basis for every person we.
Speaker 9 01:12:18
there's like 12 or 15 jira tickets for them to go it's not thankful work because they only get recognized when it's fun and so right now we should recognize them.
Speaker 1 01:12:38
Thank you to all of you for putting in that work. It really makes a huge difference when these events go reasonably well. They're hard to put together, particularly when you don't control the environment. It's not our place, obviously, right? So thank you, and thanks to Roz for standing the entire time. I'm tired just looking at you. I have sambas, and I know they're not that comfortable, so I'm with you. So I sit around on Slack. If you have it on your phone, you can access the pitch call.
Speaker 1 01:13:09
The password's CHAMP. It's super creative. Britton's really pissed off right now. Please enter in a question, because I'll go through Q&A in a minute, so I wanted to make sure that we hit that. And before I go into CHAMP of the quarter, as Brian mentioned, you will be interviewing a lot of people. This is not like your traditional, let's bring in a consultant and see what's going on. We know exactly what's going on. We need that process. discipline and rigor around some of the things we do. And when he did that for.
Speaker 1 01:13:41
NDTC, we saw that huge step up in the volume that we were able to take on. His first person I was interviewing is Bo, right? So this this is everybody, right? It started with interviewing me, then it goes to Bo, and it's gonna, we were trying to figure out how do we scale. This is where a lot of companies screw up is that they don't scale correctly. So we're trying to do it the right way with people that have done it before and know how to do it again and again and again. So this is a really positive thing to have Brian, and I'm glad I can pull him out of.
Speaker 1 01:14:13
retirement, and thanks for doing that. Britton's right, I don't send emails that say, important, must open now, get me a gift card, you know, anything like that. I realize that I get duped all the time. It's starting to get more and more sophisticated. It's even gone into like my kid's school and other adults there. And it seems odd because like, I don't know why someone would go to that kind of effort,
Speaker 1 01:14:43
but the extent to which I get duped is pretty material. And so just be on the lookout for that. Almost everybody that joined has gotten an email from me that was fake days or moments after you posted on LinkedIn that you joined CHAMP. But my cell phone works all the time. Just say like, hey, is this Shane? Or come by the office and say, did you really ask that? I love it when people do that. A few of you have, you've caught it, you did exactly what you should do, which is verify it in an offline way.
Speaker 1 01:15:14
So please, please, please keep doing that. And unlike Matt, I think all of you look fantastic. Not just many of you. So I don't know which one he was talking about, but we'll find out after a few beers. Alright, so, channel recorder, let's, so we've done this for a long time, I think, first, yeah, we, Matt, kudos to him, he went back, I didn't even know that we stored this data somewhere, but we actually had the list of everyone that's received it, and if we left anybody off, I'm going to apologize, but I'm pretty sure we got it all right, because we've been doing this for, going on four years now, and you can see that this sort of built, you can also see, I think, particularly intrigued by Q4 of 2023,
Speaker 1 01:15:59
No one got it. This isn't an absolute that somebody gets it, right? We sometimes just, you know, we're not hitting our stride. But we are recently with some great wins. And so there's two winners today, and I'm delighted to share a little bit about each of them. The first person really contributes in so many little ways. She's got such a fantastic personality that is so ingratiating and warm, and she's thoughtful in all of her work. But she really puts in a lot of effort. We go to, I think, the next slide.
Speaker 1 01:16:32
Well, I'll go back to this one, Roz. I put it out of order. That's on me. So let's go one more. So it's Vivian. Unfortunately for us, but fortunately for her, she's traveling, I think, for family stuff, but she's been awesome. She's really thoughtful about every little thing she does, and that excellence always is a big part of who she is and what she represents, and the nominations, you can read a lot about it here, we'll pass this around, but they were resounding.
Speaker 1 01:17:08
People were really big fans of Vivian, so delighted to have her on the team, and I love her positivity and the creativity she brings to things, and even the license plate thing that a lot of you have seen her do, so it's pretty awesome. The other winner also had the same level of sort of resounding, hey, we have to make sure this person gets champ of the quarter, and his name has come up a good bit over the last few years. And he's like a...
Speaker 1 01:17:39
A quiet assassin, because he just gets so much done, and you never... really hear from him it's the it's like he's got no ego the humility is incredibly high, but he just executes well over and over and over again and so that one is jake uh so jake and we've given jake a lot of hard tasks over the years that he's been here and he really does that.
Speaker 1 01:18:14
uh nearly perfectly so jake congratulations to you really appreciate all you put in it it's noticed by a lot of folks and we uh we certainly heard it as a nomination um okay can we go back to sorry i should have hit this so these are the core values of the company and you know there are a few that we talk a lot about a lot but i'm gonna read it real quick excellence always so, We have really high expectations for you to get a job here.
Speaker 1 01:18:44
We have high expectations to keep a job here, right? We always have to be excellent in what we're doing. And it doesn't mean you have to be or know everything. It just means know your stuff really, really well. Get deep into it. Innovate for impact. The moment we stop innovating is the moment we're just like any other shitty software company that had a product. We have to constantly be pushing to change and innovate the product. And as much as I might get frustrated with Bo that he changes the names of a product.
Speaker 1 01:19:16
or changes the acronyms that Libby nearly killed him during the last RFP process when he changed the name of a product midstream during the RFP, the reality is he's doing that because I know as he's writing the RFP, he's actually innovating his brain what the next version of it should look like and how he wants to present it to you. That's what we need. We just need him to not change the name of the product. in the middle of an RFE. Having a growth mindset ties into everything we're talking about today.
Speaker 1 01:19:46
Recognizing that we're better together, that's really what I was talking about earlier, where each person can contribute and make a huge difference in a company this size. It's not like you're just one person at some massive company at Sherwin-Williams or something. There's nothing wrong with that. But you didn't join here so that you could just be, one cog in the machine. There's no machine. We are all building this thing together. And so please always keep that in mind,
Speaker 1 01:20:17
that everybody here is here for a reason. Everybody has a chance to make a huge difference in this company. After the integrity and humility, there is no easier way to get fired here than to lie. I have zero tolerance for anyone that lies. I don't care if it's bad news. Bad news we can deal with, mistakes we can deal with. We cannot deal with anyone that doesn't have integrity. Candidly, a lot of our competitors don't. And it's also one of the things that differentiates us because our customers know that we're always honest.
Speaker 1 01:20:48
And that matters a lot. Trust through transparency. I hope what you hear today is that you see how clear and vivid the picture of where we are and where we're going is. I try to share the numbers so that you can really, peek behind the curtain and understand it. And I hopefully that's a bit different than what you might have seen if you were at other private companies. We talked about treating no as a stumbling block on the way to yes. And we devalue the diversity of thought and people. And so we never, you know it's funny,
Speaker 1 01:21:20
like I used to sit on the diversity inclusion commission for like chamber of converse here. And they'd always talk about these sort of odd practices. And then they'd look at our numbers, and they'd say, wait a minute, what are you guys doing at CHAMP that makes your diversity numbers so much better? And I'd stand up in front of the room, and I'm a white male, not exactly checking a lot of diversity boxes, and they'd say, what is it that you're doing different?
Speaker 1 01:21:50
And my answer was, we just don't care about anything except getting the best possible people. And as soon as you start thinking about anything other than that, you wind up with a subset of people that isn't the best. And the best is always going to be diverse. The best is always going to be different backgrounds. If I had the forethought to think that we have this many musicians or this many people, or two people that knit, is it knitting? Yes, she's doing it right now.
Speaker 1 01:22:22
I never would have envisioned that that's who we needed to hire to be successful, but that's exactly who we needed to hire to be successful. And so let's keep doing that. Always look for the best people, and we will wind up by default with an incredibly diverse group of people who have wildly different interests and wildly different backgrounds, and that's what's going to make us better. So I just wanted to highlight that because we don't talk about it enough. It's on the website, but it's not like we pay passing thought to it. We spend a lot of time trying to think about it and influence it, and so please do the same.
Speaker 1 01:22:57
All right. We can go forward through there, Ross. Sorry. Okay, Q&A. I'm going to pull up the pigeonhole. My prattling on hopefully gave you all time to... Yep, looks like we've got some new things. All right, so I'm just going to read it in live form. You can add questions or vote. As always, I'll try to... to be is between your audience.
Summary: 
Date & Time: 2026-01-22 14:25:48
Location: [Insert Location]
Attendees: [Speaker 1], [Speaker 2], [Speaker 3], [Speaker 4], [Speaker 5], Brian, Lydia Nelhus, Brenton Witonski, Shane, LT, Libby, Jeff, Quinn, Matt, Zabed, Sarah, Donald, Jill, Alex Bester, Tabitha, [Speaker 7], [Speaker 9], Miguel, Bella, Ryan, Brian Calloway, Joanna, Taylor, Brittany, Jenna, John, Roz, Bo, Vivian, Jake
## 1. The "Why" of Working at Champ
### Conclusion
The speaker, Brian, came out of retirement to work at Champ because he believes the company is going to change the automotive industry by digitizing processes like paper titles. His purpose is driven by the desire to win, be part of a company that will be known for a century, and make a financial impact.
### Discussion Points
1. [Speaker 6]:The automotive industry has archaic processes, like requiring paper titles for car purchases, which is illogical compared to paperless real estate transactions.
   - You can buy a $5-10 million house without paper, but a $10,000 used car requires a paper title.
2. [Speaker 6]:Everyone at Champ is a leader with the ability to influence direction, and this collective leadership is essential for success.
   - The company is not a typical startup where employees just perform a role and leave; active contribution is required.
   - Leadership is about influence, and everyone has an opportunity to shift and influence ideas in meetings or discussions.
3. [Speaker 6]:To win, every employee needs to contribute a little extra, a concept described by the Cajun French word "Lagnap".
   - This "little extra gift" from everyone will lead to collective achievement.
   - An example is a sports team that went from a poor record to a championship by playing as a team ("we" not "me").
## 2. Company Fundraising and Valuation
### Conclusion
The company raised $55 million in a recent funding round, split between equity and debt. This round valued the company at $355 million, which was directly tied to the Total Contract Value (TCV) at the time of the deal. The company's valuation has grown from $0 to $355 million over several rounds, with each valuation milestone closely corresponding to the cumulative value of its signed contracts. The goal is to reach a billion dollars in TCV, which will open up significant new opportunities.
### Discussion Points
1. [Speaker 1]:The company raised $55 million in the latest round, which was an equal split of equity and debt.
   - Equity is good because it carries less risk but dilutes existing shareholders.
   - Debt avoids dilution but adds risk, as lenders could take the company if it fails. A balance is key.
2. [Speaker 1]:Despite the large headline number, the company must remain frugal with spending.
   - The company has 118 employees and is still growing.
   - Revenue from recently signed contracts takes time to scale.
3. [Speaker 1]:The company was valued at $355 million in this round, a figure that is confidential and not public.
   - Competitors are closely watching and even mimicking marketing language, so confidentiality is crucial.
4. [Speaker 1]:The company's valuation has consistently tracked its Total Contract Value (TCV).
   - First round: ~$30M valuation with West Virginia contract.
   - Second round: $70M valuation with ~$75-80M in TCV.
   - Third round: $140M valuation with $150M in TCV.
   - Current round: $355M valuation with exactly $355M in TCV (before signing Kansas).
## 3. Contract Performance and Growth Strategy
### Conclusion
The company's current total contract value is $385 million across seven states. Performance varies by state, with West Virginia on track, but others like New Jersey, Kentucky, and Rhode Island requiring work to achieve their full potential value. Kentucky serves as a prime example of rapid revenue growth, having more than doubled annualized revenue in six months due to focused effort from a cross-departmental team. The strategic focus for 2026 is to deliver on these existing contracts to realize their full revenue potential.
### Plan
- [ ] Pass a law in Illinois to mandate utilization and secure the contract's full value. -- *Bo*, *LT*
- [ ] Work on securing phase two of the Illinois contract. -- *Bo*, *LT*
- [ ] The entire team needs to focus on delivering on all signed contracts to realize their full value in 2026.
### Discussion Points
1. [Speaker 1]:The current Total Contract Value (TCV) is $385 million, but performance against this potential varies by state.
   - West Virginia: $50M value, performing as expected.
   - New Jersey (Phase 1): $40M value, slightly off track due to issues with some lenders.
   - Kentucky: $118M value, a major source of potential growth.
   - Illinois (Phase 1): $60M value, on a good path but needs a law passed to mandate utilization.
   - Rhode Island: $27M value, currently at zero revenue as it has not been launched yet.
   - Louisiana: $54M value, on track as payments are based on meeting delivery metrics, which have been met.
   - Kansas: $30M value, currently at zero revenue as delivery has not started.
2. [Speaker 1]:Kentucky's revenue more than doubled in six months, demonstrating the potential for growth within existing contracts.
   - Annualized revenue grew from just over $1 million to over $2.5 million since June 1st of last year.
   - This success was attributed to the focused efforts of a small, cross-departmental team, including individuals like Tabitha, Katie, and Ian, who bird-dogged issues, ran reports, re-engineered systems, and solved state-specific problems.
3. [Speaker 1]:The gap between potential contract value and current revenue represents the immediate growth opportunity for the company.
   - Revenue from these existing contracts can be generated right away, unlike new contracts that may not pay off until 2027 or 2028.
   - 2026 is designated as the year to focus on taking advantage of and delivering on what has already been signed.
4. [Speaker 1]:Teamwork and individual contributions are critical to achieving company-wide growth.
   - One person from each department stepping up can collectively make a huge difference, as seen in the Kentucky example.
   - Consistent delivery across all contracts will fundamentally change the company's trajectory and profitability.
## 4. State Contracting and Team Expansion
### Conclusion
The Government Relations team had a successful 2025, closing contracts with New Jersey and Louisiana. For 2026, the goals are to close three new state contracts, continue team expansion, pass legislation in two states, and standardize team processes to shorten sales cycles.
### Plan
- [ ] Close three new state contracts in 2026. -- *Government Relations Team* 2026
- [ ] Secure testing agreements. -- *Government Relations Team* 2026
- [ ] Continue to add new talented members to the team. -- *Government Relations Team* 2026
- [ ] Pass critical legislation in Rhode Island and Kentucky. -- *Government Relations Team* [Insert Key Date]
- [ ] Continue to standardize team processes to maximize efficiency, refine RFP responses, and reduce the sales cycle. -- *Government Relations Team* 2026
### Discussion Points
1. [Speaker 7]:Champ is currently active in seven states, representing a significant market share for a company of its age.
2. [Speaker 7]:The Louisiana contract is the broadest in scope and will be delivered within 12 months, which is the fastest deployment timeline to date.
3. [Speaker 7]:The team has doubled in size, which enables them to give state opportunities the necessary attention.
   - The team grew from LT, Lydia, and Clint to include Jeff, Bispaul, and other new members.
4. [Speaker 7]:Standardizing processes is critical to maximizing efficiency, improving bids, and reducing the sales cycle, which can take months to years.
## 5. Improving State Onboarding and Activation Processes
### Conclusion
The company has grown so fast that state onboarding and activation processes have been inefficient ("chicken with a head cut off"). The company will now focus on creating scalable, standardized processes to make onboarding more efficient.
### Plan
- [ ] Interview various employees to understand the current processes for state onboarding and activation. -- *Brian* [Insert Key Date]
- [ ] Define roles and responsibilities related to the state activation process. -- *Brian* [Insert Key Date]
- [ ] Establish a scalable, standardized, and efficient process for onboarding and activating new states. -- *Brian* [Insert Key Date]
### Discussion Points
1. [Speaker 6]:The current process for activating and onboarding states is not efficient or scalable due to rapid growth.
   - The amount of work for LT, Libby, and Jeff to get states activated is "monumental."
2. [Speaker 6]:A formal, repeatable process is needed to ensure that when a state is won, everyone knows the steps to follow for efficient activation.
   - The company is moving out of the "everyone's running" startup phase and must now implement formal processes.
## 6. Product and Platform Scalability for Future Growth
### Conclusion
The current product platform, while successful, is not scalable enough to support the company's goal of reaching a billion-dollar TCV. Therefore, 2026 will be a pivotal year for re-platforming and scaling. The product strategy is centered on three pillars: launching strategic new offerings like digital titles, making the core product repeatable and foundational through a unified data model, and transitioning to a "Generation 2" application to make new state deployments faster and less costly.
### Discussion Points
1. [Speaker 2]:The current platform, while it got the company to this point, is not sufficient to reach the next level of growth.
   - 2026 will be a year focused on scaling and re-platforming the technology.
2. [Speaker 2]:The future product strategy has three main pillars for 2026.
   - Pillar 1: Launch strategic new offerings like digital titles to prove their value.
   - Pillar 2: Make the product repeatable and foundational by building things like a unified agency data model and a plugin architecture.
   - Pillar 3: Transition to a "Generation 2" application to enable faster and less customized deployments in new states.
3. [Speaker 3]:The company needs to establish a structure that allows for continued agility and the ability to "fail fast" as it grows.
   - This structure should support key personnel like Tabitha quickly and efficiently without them needing to figure out who to contact for help.
## 7. National Digital Titling Clearinghouse (NDTC) Performance and Goals
### Conclusion
The NDTC has seen massive growth, increasing transactions by 700% in one year from 9,900 to 79,000. The focus for the upcoming year is to expand the client base beyond the repossession sector into insurance and salvage, and to reduce the transaction rejection rate to below 5% by leveraging AI and improving processes.
### Plan
- [ ] Develop the client base for the salvage and insurance sectors. -- *[Insert responsible person's name]* 2020
- [ ] Reduce the transaction rejection rate to below 5%. -- *The team, Matt, Zabed, Sarah, Donald, Jill* [Insert Key Date]
### Discussion Points
1. [Speaker 6]:The NDTC has experienced 700% growth in one year, from 9,900 transactions to 79,000.
   - This growth was driven by bringing in a new team to structure processes and activate clients.
2. [Speaker 6]:The company has been very successful in the lenders/repossession space but needs to diversify its client base.
   - The product is also beneficial for insurance, dealers, and fleet clients.
   - Copart and IAA are key targets for expanding into the salvage and insurance sectors.
3. [Speaker 6]:A key goal is to get the transaction rejection rate below 5% to improve efficiency and make the service valuable for states like West Virginia.
   - AI will be used to help in the decision-making of transactions to manage volume without continuously hiring more staff.
## 8. HR, Recruiting, and Company Culture
### Conclusion
The company has successfully absorbed employee benefit cost increases for a consecutive year, introduced a formal six-week paid parental leave policy, and will participate in the "Top Place to Work" survey. The recruiting process is intentionally rigorous, with LinkedIn serving as the primary tool and yielding significant organic brand growth. The best source for new hires is employee referrals. The companys core values are central to its identity, with Vivian and Jake being recognized as "Champ of the Quarter" for embodying these values.
### Plan
- [ ] Send an email next week for the "Top Place to Work" survey, which will take about five minutes to complete. -- *[Speaker 9]* Next week
- [ ] LinkedIn will host a private "hacking your profile" session for employees interested in improving their social media brand presence. -- *[Speaker 9]* [Insert Key Date]
- [ ] Consider asking LinkedIn to put a numeric figure on the free media value generated by organic impressions. -- *[Speaker 9]* [Insert Key Date]
- [ ] The engineering team is currently tweaking the recruiting process to add more formal technical steps. -- Engineering team [Insert Key Date]
### Discussion Points
1. [Speaker 9]:The company absorbed the premium increases for employee benefits for a consecutive year and established a formal parental leave policy of six weeks fully paid.
2. [Speaker 9]:The company will participate in the "Top Place to Work" survey again, following its 2025 win. The survey is anonymous and takes about five minutes.
3. [Speaker 9]:The company intentionally uses a rigorous recruiting process and relies on LinkedIn instead of a traditional applicant tracking system.
   - LinkedIn activity in 2025 generated 1.35 million impressions, representing hundreds of thousands of dollars in free media value.
   - The best source for new hires is employee referrals of top performers from their previous companies.
4. [Speaker 1]:The company's core values are a key focus, including integrity, innovation, and hiring the best people to foster diversity naturally. Lying is a fireable offense.
5. [Speaker 1]:Vivian and Jake were named "Champ of the Quarter" for their outstanding contributions, positive attitude, and consistent execution with humility.
## 9. Security Strategy and Initiatives
### Conclusion
The company's security focus is to protect the company, customers, and employees while enabling the business. The major initiative for 2026 is achieving GovRAMP authorized status to serve as a key market differentiator and build trust. All employees are reminded to be vigilant, especially by thinking before clicking links in emails or messages.
### Plan
- [ ] Achieve GovRAMP authorized status to accelerate growth and differentiate from competitors. -- *Security Team* 2026
### Discussion Points
1. [Speaker 8]:Security is a team sport, and every employee plays a critical role in protecting the company's reputation, finances, and customer trust.
2. [Speaker 8]:Achieving GovRAMP authorized status is a critical initiative for 2026 that will help the company stay ahead of competitors.
   - GovRAMP is a security framework recognized by states and will serve as proof of security, accelerating growth.
3. [Speaker 8]:Employees should always "think before you click a link" to avoid phishing and other security threats, including sophisticated scams that have targeted new hires.
   - Before clicking, one should ask: Was I expecting it? Is it from a trusted source? Is there urgency? Hover over the link to verify its destination.
   - Always verify suspicious requests through an offline channel, such as a phone call or in-person check.
## 10. Event Acknowledgment and Next Steps
### Conclusion
The meeting was the largest one ever held. Key individuals were thanked for their significant contributions to organizing the event, including Ryan and Shane for financial approval, the venue for coordination, Jenna for planning, John's team for AV and tech support, and Roz.
### Discussion Points
1. [Speaker 9]:Ryan and Shane were thanked for financially supporting the event.
2. [Speaker 9]:Jenna was instrumental in the planning of the event.
3. [Speaker 9]:John's team was recognized for their daily audio-visual and tech support, which is often thankless work.
4. [Speaker 1]:Brian's involvement in process discipline is a positive step for scaling the company correctly, as proven by the success at NDTC.
> **AI Suggestions**
> AI has identified the following issues that were not concluded in the meeting or lack clear action items; please pay attention:
> 1. **Risk of Underperformance in Key Contracts:** The summary highlights that New Jersey is "a little bit off" due to lender issues, and Rhode Island is at "a zero right now" because it hasn't launched. There are no specific, assigned action items or deadlines mentioned to mitigate these risks and get these contracts on track to their full potential value.
> 2. **Unclear Plan for "Generation 2" Application:** The transition to a more scalable "Generation 2" application is presented as a key strategic pillar for 2026. However, the discussion lacks a concrete project plan, timeline, resource allocation, or designated leader for this critical initiative.
> 3. **Vague Action Plan for Illinois Mandate:** While passing a law in Illinois is mentioned as a necessary step for which Bo and LT are working, the meeting did not cover the specific strategy, potential roadblocks, or timelines for this legislative effort. Clarifying the plan and required support from the broader team is crucial for success.
> 4. **Clarification of NDTC Expansion Plan:** While the goal to expand the NDTC client base into insurance and salvage sectors was set for "2020," this year appears to be a transcription error. The plan lacks specific owners and a realistic timeline (e.g., for 2026). It's unclear who is leading this initiative and what the first steps are to engage potential clients like Copart and IAA.
> 5. **Undefined State Onboarding Process Timeline:** Brian announced an initiative to formalize the state onboarding process by interviewing staff and defining roles. However, no key dates or deadlines were mentioned for completing this process definition. A clear timeline is needed to ensure the new, scalable process is in place before the next state contract is won.
> 6. **Ambiguous Action Plan for Legislation:** The plan to "pass critical legislation" in Rhode Island and Kentucky is mentioned as a priority for 2026, but lacks detail on the specific actions, owners, or timelines involved. Clarification is needed on what steps the team will take to support this legislative effort and who is leading the charge for each state.
> 7. **LinkedIn "Hacking Your Profile" Session:** Speaker 9 mentioned an upcoming private session with LinkedIn on "hacking your profile," but no specific date, time, or registration process was provided. Action: Clarify the schedule and logistics for this "lunch and learn" event so interested employees can plan to attend.
> 8. **Quantifying LinkedIn Media Value:** Speaker 9 stated an intent to ask LinkedIn for a numeric figure on the free media value generated from organic impressions. This is a valuable metric for understanding marketing ROI. Action: Assign this task to a specific person (e.g., Speaker 9, Taylor) with a target date to ensure it is followed up on.
> 9. **Engineering Team's Recruiting Process Tweaks:** It was mentioned that the engineering team is adding more technical steps to the recruiting process. The details of these changes and the timeline for implementation were not discussed. Action: The next steps and expected completion date for these process updates should be clarified and communicated to relevant stakeholders.