Transcript from2026-01-23T14:18:00Z
Speaker 1 00:00:00
Tyler.
Speaker 2 00:00:01
Awesome. Well, thanks again, everyone. Our third of three sessions. We do have quite the jam-packed session today. Let me also preface by saying thanks, everyone, for the flexibility. Had some outages over the last couple weeks and schedules are tight, with it being the holidays. But so we've got three products today, which will kind of round out our offering of all the different products that we've shown so far. So today is DTOS, Cade, and DTMS. Kind of round out, again, the product suite. So quick agenda. Kind of start with a recap, kind of where we are, where we're headed.
Speaker 2 00:00:33
Quick aside about going to the DMV. I think kind of set the stage for what our products do.
Speaker 3 00:00:43
Got a slight echo there for a second.
Speaker 4 00:00:56
I don't have to give people anymore, I guess, once they, all right.
Speaker 2 00:01:13
Okay, perfect. So product overview, we'll go through VTAS, we'll go through CADE, a little bit of a preface on digital titling, and then we'll get to DTMS, and obviously we'll have some time at the end for Q&A. Again, we do have the full hour booked, 2.30 to 3.30 this time, not going to stop us early at 3 like I did for the first session. But if there are any questions that we can't get to, we will try our best to respond to them all. But please use the chat. We're going to monitor it over here, and then we'll kind of work them in as it makes sense. So let's start with the recap. You guys have seen this a couple times at this point.
Speaker 2 00:01:46
This is kind of a rough diagram of how all of our apps fit together, and obviously, over the past couple of weeks, we've broken them up into different sections. We're here on session three, so again, VTOS, Cade, and VTMS. Last week, you guys talked about ELTS and comms, and then a couple weeks before that, we talked about ETRS and Clearinghouse. So ETRS and Clearinghouse kind of set the stage of how do we get data into the ecosystem. ELTS and comms are sort of how do we manage the data in the ecosystem and how do we get it to the lenders. And VTOS, Cade, and VTMS are kind of what does DMV do with the data, how can we augment it to make it a little bit better with Cade, and then VTMS is how do we really put a bow on the digital titling experience for customers as well.
Speaker 2 00:02:27
So you guys have seen this, our friend Charles buying a car. We're going to refer back to this a couple times, but just wanted to kind of ground everyone here. So, a rough overview in case anybody missed it in the past sessions. This is kind of a really quick and dirty explanation of how a customer would get their title from the point of buying a car all the way to receiving it in the mail in a completely paper-based process. So, step one, buys the car, completes the paperwork, the dealership, everybody knows it's bought a car. There's quite a lot of papers to sign a dealer.
Speaker 2 00:02:57
Those are often mailed or driven over to the DMV in some cases where they sit in a pile a lot of the time for quite a bit until somebody can get around to reviewing them. If there's any issues, errors with the data that's sent over, there is a feedback loop, so they'll have to send that back to the dealer for correction, and then it will be resubmitted. That can go on in perpetuity until the data is correct and the title application can be approved. And then finally, when that's approved, we print the title, and that title is mailed to Charles at home.
Speaker 2 00:03:28
So today's session, we're going to focus on the DMV, which is really going to be steps two and three of that diagram we just looked at. So I don't know what you guys think about when you think about the DMV. My perspective has changed quite a bit over the couple of years I've been here at CHAMP. But I think about the movie Zootopia, if you've seen it, there's a scene about the DMV. I love the folks at the DMV and those of us that work with them know that they're not slots. It's really just the antiquated processes that the DMVs have built in over the years that they've been established.
Speaker 2 00:03:59
A lot of bureaucracy, a lot of paperwork, different departments striving towards the same goal. But it's just a lot of kind of handcuffs and red tape to run through. So the efficiencies that we're able to bring with VITAS are not to really change the core functions of the DMV in any way. It's just to expedite the work that they're doing, make the work much more efficient so that they can get to more transactions really in the same amount of time. So, like I said, steps two and three here in the process of where we're going to start out today,
Speaker 2 00:04:29
and then we'll wrap up with digital title about that kind of title delivery piece there in step four. Questions so far? Cool. Great. So, let's jump into VTOS, and Naomi's going to walk us through.
Speaker 4 00:04:43
what VTOS is all about. Thanks, Tyler. I don't want to use your mask, because last time you just... All right. Okay. So, VTOS, we compare administration service. I used to say administration, I guess, but I'm the product manager for VTOS. I work with an amazing team, dev team. Shout out to them. And what does VTOS do is enabling title administration to process set applications and manage the registration web. I know that I just read that, but next slide,
Speaker 4 00:05:18
please. So because in West Virginia, we are the system of record. So that means that all the data is on kind of like a centralized database. Everything is in one database, which is kind of like pretty good because we don't have to kind of like be at the center. And every time that they ask questions to us or anything like that, it's just relying on us for the most part. Today, we kind of like have, I don't know, 950,000 census process and a little 2 million title records.
Speaker 4 00:05:51
Next slide, please. So, in the past, and even Tyler did some type of, like, a recap, we did, like, ETRS and the clearinghouse a couple weeks ago. So, this is a way that we can actually receive the transfer agreements, and then the DMV can process. The other workflows, I'm sorry, that we can actually have as well is mail-in. So, like, you're walking, and you see the DMV, and you kind of, like, want to go and take your picture, try to, you know, escape.
Speaker 4 00:06:23
But you can actually get your title renewed or registration as well. And we do have walk-ins and drop-offs from customers as well. So, next slide, please. So these are the job functions that are around the VITAS West Virginia. So we review the pet applications, the managed title registration, and the other support functions like receiving, processing, and data entry. And we are going to go through those screens on the next slide, please.
Speaker 4 00:06:55
So this is our transfer queue. So every time that the dealer go and send requests, that's how they go and review the transfer agreements for us. And they will click on the queue and kind of like look at the data and see if that's actually matching with the evidence. So next screen, please. So this is our transfer agreement detail page. What they typically will do, there is a.
Speaker 4 00:07:27
View evidence, and then they will be comparing the data that they received from the DMV and make sure that it's matching with what they scan. next uh the other one i did mention like uh walk-ins so on the top of the right-hand side there is a print button over there that they can go ahead as walk-in go create a transfer, and get their title as well um next one please uh this is after uh so transfer is kind of like transfer ownership if you will that's what we kind of like call here champ access uh as uh.
Speaker 4 00:08:03
our um shortcut if you will um but also after we created the the title they can come here uh when you say day the day we can go uh renew the title and or renew the registration before i go to the parting.
Speaker 2 00:08:22
I don't think so. So pause there. Quick recap. So we went over the ways that we can get data into VTAS. So again, dealer submissions, like we talked about the first session, walk-ins or mail-ins as well. And then the screens that we looked at are the ways that they review incoming applications. The screen after the application's been approved and we have a title record, what that looks like. So now at this point, they can transfer that, they can edit the data, they can renew the registration. Anything you need to go into the DMV to do with your title or reg can be done.
Speaker 4 00:08:52
And that leads us right here. After the title's been approved, there is a ton of stuff that happens behind the scenes. So there is something that we call third-party applications. What's going on behind the scenes? So next, so we do have some, some of the integration here, Vintel genes for those that have used it. So you kind of like type the V and make sure that V is actually valid. So we kind of like decodes the V. In Vitas, there are a few things that is going on there. One that I can work it out. Actually, the team is working on today. It's kind of like making sure that if there is transfer from another state, is this title correct or not?
Speaker 4 00:09:37
We do have just like partnership that we have with dealers. We do have with Tyler Tech as well. They kind of like take care of billing. Celtic we have here is the, our, for West Virginia specifically, we are going to use for getting the plate numbers and also that's their POS system. IHS and experience just like conforming the data on the title. Is that correct? Yeah.
Speaker 2 00:10:06
aggregators. So we send them title data and then they use it for Experian, obviously credit reporting bureau, I just market just a large data aggregator for various sources. But to Naomi's point, we either send or receive data from all these different systems. And this kind of fills out the suite of functionality within VITAS, all the different things that we do.
Speaker 5 00:10:30
Question. So for companies like YASI or ADP123, do they integrate with VITAS at all or is that, elsewhere, if at all. 
Speaker 2 00:10:39
They do. I know that I'm going to say we to refer to both us and Tyler Tech in West Virginia. We provide YASI data. I don't know where it's connected. But they do. So yeah, those companies that offer like MVR reporting, data reporting as well, they would tie into the system.
Speaker 4 00:10:59
Is there any questions online? Miguel is actually monitoring our chat as well, so if you guys have any questions, please raise your hands or you can actually type on the chat. Excuse me. So I talk about West Virginia. Beginning of this year, we launched for Kentucky as well. But different from Western West Virginia, Kentucky, we are not the system of records. They do have a system that they call Kavis. And for Vitas in Kentucky, it's a kind of like, I mean, a cockpit that I would say.
Speaker 4 00:11:37
Next slide, please. So the way, because I mentioned that we are not the system of records in Kentucky, the way that we actually do the integration with Kentucky, if you will, we actually just receive the transactions through the dealers. So there's no walk-ins or anything like that, because again, we are not the system of records. So we are not the system of records. Next slide, please. So in Kentucky, it's pretty straightforward. They're going to review the title. If nothing is matching, they're just.
Speaker 4 00:12:08
going to reject and that's it. They will review order. They do have different types of transactions, if you will. So dealer agreement, reassignment, and duplicate title. And also, once they finish kind of like approving in VTAS, they go and this is what we call our dual entry queue. And the people will usually like, oh, what is that? So it's just like a way that changes data to their older system of records that we call CAPES.
Speaker 4 00:12:42
So this is kind of like our screen for Kentucky. There's a home page. Same thing, we do have the Qs here, transfer Qs, just like we had in West Virginia. One additional Q that we have here is CAVIS. Action required just because, again, once they go see, they approve the data, they have to manual entry to another system, which is CAVIS. This is our transfer agreement details. Same thing as kind of like West Virginia.
Speaker 4 00:13:14
And then for the final step, what they have to do is copy that data and put it on their CAVIS screen. So future is actually to have an integration so that this screen, we don't have to do anything. We are the clerks, my apologies. But for now, they are doing what we call manual data entry in CAVIS. Oh, sorry. So for Kentucky as well, we do have integrations. There's the first one, it's called NADA. That one is for making sure the usage tax, when they are transferred the cars, if it's correct or not. And then again, Tyler Technologies for billing. Future, we want to do KB's integrations and also in VITAS.
Speaker 4 00:14:02
I think that's that. That's it for VITAS. Yes.
Speaker 2 00:14:05
Questions about VITAS, what's your name here, Kentucky, or. 
Speaker 4 00:14:10
I accept a false, I'm not shy. Thank you. False, false. Oh, okay.
Speaker 2 00:14:22
I lied. There's actually some more VTOS. So future kind of looking ahead, what to expect VTOS wise. I didn't learn my lesson first time. Contrast isn't great, but hopefully you guys can see three major initiatives that are kind of on the roadmap. Dealer licensing is one. So managing the licenses of dealers in the state, as you can imagine, much like you having a driver's license dealers in the state have to be licensed by the DMV. In West Virginia, the DMV that we work with manages that and this will essentially allow them to issue licenses, edit licenses, revoke licenses,
Speaker 2 00:14:53
manage the number of plates and the types of plates that dealers have, the dealer plates we often see driving around, things like that, to be able to better regulate the dealers in the state. Watercraft support, the state of West Virginia DMV also titles boats. Some states do, some states don't, but there obviously is a new kind of type of vehicle that we're titling. Current state, we've got, you know, cars, trucks, trailers, vans, what have you, buses. This will be a new, kind of, venture for VTOS watercraft. Obviously, a lot of new fields that will have to support different.
Speaker 2 00:15:26
nuances that are specific to watercraft versus boats or versus vehicles rather. And then finally, IDs and driver licensing. As you all are probably familiar, when you go to the DMV, a big part of that is getting your driver's license or getting a state ID. That is not something that we can currently do within VTOS. Some states have sort of a unified operation where they have the same team or a similar team doing that that would be doing T&R. So to kind of fill out our product offering, we figure that we need to plug that in in some capacity down the line.
Speaker 2 00:15:58
And then more immediately coming is this new redesigned user interface. So VITAS, if you've been here for long enough, you've seen it kind of grow over time. Started off, you know, pretty simple, bare bones, and we've slowly incremented and added features and refined it for the users. This next phase is what we're calling sort of a power user redesign, making it easier for these experts to do their jobs every day. So currently, if you see VITAS recently, it's a big list of data, essentially a scrollable page. And there's the ability to open this evidence in a new tab.
Speaker 2 00:16:30
And you have to have basically two monitor screens or two half windows on one screen where you're comparing the scanned evidence to the data. This redesign will make that one single page. And the goal is over time to be able to reduce the amount of scrolling that needs to be done on that left side. So that when they open up a detail page, they have all the data right in front of them to make a decision whether this needs to be approved, rejected or set back or edited. Great. That brings us to the end of ETAS now. So any questions before we jump to Cade?
Speaker 2 00:17:04
All right, Cade. You might have heard Cade. You might have thought, is this a new employee that we've hired? Who is this guy? Cade is not a person. Cade is the system that we're building. So Cade stands for Compliance Automated Decisioning Engine. And the goal of Cade is really to capture, analyze, and interpret data that is going to augment and enhance the titling process, whether it be digital or non-digital. Probably doesn't make a lot of sense, but we're going to walk through some examples, which I think will help illustrate this. So three sort of main buckets of how we think about CAVE, it's intaking and transforming data from a number of different sources, analyzing and interpreting that data.
Speaker 2 00:17:43
So finding patterns within the data, grouping like terms, being able to make sort of predictions based on the patterns and the organization of the data, and then producing some sort of output, depending on whether that's an internal system receiving the output. Is that for me? Yeah, I would agree. Come on.
Speaker 2 00:34:47
So in this case, a very kind of bare-bones example of this might be on the intake and transform side, we've got what looks to be a title of some sort and some data. We've got the year 2020, make is Toyota, model is Camry, and in this case, there's no break. Cade would take in that data, analyze and interpret. So in this case, it has identified some key fields on the title, and it thinks that it's looking at a title from the state of Missouri in this case. And it ran a VIN check through NMVDIS and Vintelligence and found that the year is actually 2021, and there was a salvage brand on this call.
Speaker 2 00:35:24
So being able to augment and find gaps in the submitted data to paint a bit better picture for the reviewing party. And here on the right, you'll see the output. In this case, we've got a 99% confidence score that this is a title from Missouri. And in this case, we've got some warnings that some data did not match third-party system.
Speaker 5 00:35:42
Yes, so quick question. So since there's two kind of warnings of those discrepancies in the years in the brand, wouldn't that be a little lower than a 99% confidence. 
Speaker 2 00:35:51
Well, the slide organization might have confused you a little bit. This is 99% confidence that this is in fact a title. Oh, this is flagging that some of the data. Yeah, two different ways that we can kind of get feedback from people that are independent of one another, depending on the recipient system, they might be used together, they might be used separately. But really high level speaking, that's the goal of Cade. Thinking back to the VITAS example, if you're a clerk who's reviewing hundreds of transfers a day, if rather than having to go to NMVDIS and manually check this data every time and manually review every single scanned document to see,
Speaker 2 00:36:28
is this really a title? Is it fraud? You know, what state is this title from? If the system does it for you and gives you the data, again, on that theme of efficiency and moving faster, we can move a lot quicker being able to centralize that and then letting the experts make that decision. And then sort of future state of CAID is not necessarily removing the human element, but letting CAID sort of make that decision based on the data here and how it's interpreted. Should this be an approval? Should this be a rejection? Is this an exceptional case? Is this like fraud or something like that? Does that make sense?
Speaker 2 00:37:01
Any questions there. 
Speaker 5 00:37:03
I have one more. Sorry. So how does Cade actually learn? Like, again, this might be a rudimentary example. I'm envisioning you guys having to upload a ton of different titles from different states that have different, you know, all that kind of stuff. Is that what you do? Or do you like hold, like, I'm just curious how the learning part. 
Speaker 2 00:37:20
Yeah, much like you would learn, right? So a lot of repetition practice. Cade is learning right now as we speak. Cade's probably in elementary school right now. He's growing up. He's learning more and he's learning about different types of data, different scenarios. So at this point, Cade can roughly, I think, identify documents, some document types. But the goal is we kind of increase the scope of what it knows. And the way that we would do that is just by giving it examples and telling it this is a title. And then it starts to see patterns in the data that we give it.
Speaker 2 00:37:52
Cool. So future of CAVE, we kind of got into it a little bit, but the idea is that we can augment different parts of our internal systems and also external systems to really improve the process along the line. So on the clearinghouse side, it could be used to interpret or analyze orders up front, maybe auto-select the transaction type that's being selected for this being requested based on their submitted data. You know, obviously capture potential fraud cases or identify cases where the data is not accurate. The Utah side, again, augmenting that clerk title application review process, centralizing third-party data into one screen so they can see things kind of in a single pane of glass.
Speaker 2 00:38:31
On the comm side, same thing. So, you know, identifying types of documents that are submitted, could be used maybe on the GLR side to identify unknown values that come in, being able to find patterns kind of more down the line once it sees more of that VLT data. And on the ETRS side as well, kind of similar to Clarinth House, when orders are created or transfer agreements in this case are created, validating that data up front, returning the VITAS, NADA, the intelligence data so that the clerks and the dealers can make informed decisions.
Speaker 2 00:39:04
when they're submitting these things out. And there's also been interest from other agencies, so, you know, CBR, DBI, DealerTrack, those folks that do a lot of ERT transactions to help reduce the amount of basically manpower and staff that they have to have to review all these transfers. A lot of exciting stuff. You probably got the gist of it, but shade is very nascent at this point. It's really in a kind of R&D phase. If you will, learning and growing, figuring out what you can do long term. On the VTOS side, it should look familiar.
Speaker 2 00:39:35
This is the redesigned UI that we just looked at. One of the places that we do want to plug and feed pretty soon is this ability to show feedback based on certain vehicle data. Might be hard to see in the back, but there's little green checks on these fields saying that the value matched the expected result. In this case, the year, there was a discrepancy and this is dummy data, so you'll see just values. But the idea is that similar to the example we looked at, if the vehicle year here is 2021, submitted data says it was 2020, we can show that discrepancy to the clerk and they can use that to inform the decision.
Speaker 2 00:40:11
Questions on KB? All right, let's jump into digital files.
Speaker 6 00:40:18
Let's get digital. Who here has actually held a vehicle title, maybe in their own name? Quite a few of us. That's great. So a vehicle title, this one is from the state of West Virginia. It represents that this titling authority, in this case, West Virginia, is saying that this is a secure and legal document that the person's name on that title has a right to own that vehicle. Okay. Each state has their own titles.
Speaker 6 00:40:51
They look different depending on which state you're looking at. Shane has compared that to each state having their own currency. So that's a different titling authority. But no matter which state you go to, that state has been authorized to say that it is both secure and that it is legal proof of ownership. That means that you have the right to transfer that vehicle, sell it to someone else. Now there's some key information that's listed on the title. You'll see the title, number,
Speaker 6 00:41:23
the vehicle, the owners that are on it, and then the lien holder information if there is in fact a lien. And you'll notice on the sides here, sort of antiquated looking, it's interesting to look at like each state has a different watermark. This proves that you can, you know, if there is an issue where it's suspected to be fraudulent, you can compare those to a true title just to.
Speaker 6 00:41:54
make sure that this is in fact a legal document. But there are risks when it comes to having these secure paper titles. They can be title washed, they can be counterfeit, so forged. There's long cycle times, so if you are like me and you're terrible at keeping track of where your paperwork is in your house and you want to sell your vehicle, it might be difficult to find, you might need to contact the state, get a copy of that before you can ever sell the vehicle. So that can be very frustrating.
Speaker 6 00:42:25
And from the DMV perspective, they have to send those out. It can take weeks to months to reissue a title if there's a need to. And then if there's corrections that need to be made, you would also need to get a duplicate title. So this has taken us to the 21st century, but we're pushing up against the limitations, of these secure paper titles.
Speaker 6 00:42:56
In a digital world. Let's move to the next slide. Now, who here has ever been to an event? Hopefully everybody. I would feel very sad if you haven't been to, but no matter if you've been to, you know, a play, a concert, a sporting event, pretty much everybody now goes up to the gate. You don't give them tickets. You're likely letting them scan your phone, right? That phone, the ticket that you have on your phone isn't actually the ticket, right? It's just a pointer to the ticket. That's why it has to be scanned. That's why, you know, the scanner will read back that it isn't.
Speaker 6 00:43:41
ticket because there's a check being made on the back end checking with somewhere secure if you drop your phone and break it if you drop it in the water your ticket is not gone because your ticket was never actually on that phone your your phone only held a pointer to the actual asset of your ticket another nice thing with e-tickets is if i want to transfer my ticket to patrick he's buying the tickets for me the the ticketing app doesn't handle payment but you know we'll.
Speaker 6 00:44:14
settle it through venmo or whatever and i can send him the transfer of that ticket he would then be able to use his ticket the one that's on my phone uh if i had a qr code would no longer be valid because he's been updated as the owner of that ticket now why are we talking about tickets next slide please you, So digital titles, we're entering a whole new paradigm with vehicle titles that's never been done before. Very exciting. You know, this is about as exciting as vehicle titles get.
Speaker 6 00:44:47
So we talked about the secure paper title and the limitations that it has. There can only be one single certificate that's valid at any given time. With electronic titles, we've done those for a long time now with ELT. Those can be confirmed in a central database. However, no physical title exists. If you want to transfer an electronic title out of state, you need to contact the DMV. They need to send you they need to switch it to a paper title.
Speaker 6 00:45:18
That paper title needs to be sent to you. And then, you know, that can take weeks, months. So that non-transactability is a huge limitation of electronic titles. With digital titles, we've got the reference evidence. We talked about the e-ticket that points back to the actual asset. That's held in a permission blockchain. So that's secure. That's secure by half. You can't, from the outside, get to that pointer and update information.
Speaker 6 00:45:48
because the handshake that happens will notice that something has arrived and will not let you make any changes to it if you aren't authorized to. The title record is therefore immutable. And because you can have multiple copies, like if I print out a bunch of copies of a title, a digital title, and somebody takes it, they don't then have ownership of it. They just have a piece of paper because when they scan that piece of paper, that would still point to me as the owner.
Speaker 6 00:46:23
So clearly, digital title is the winner and the way forward as we look to the future. So we're going to talk about DTMS now. So we identified that we need a digital title to bring us to the future. So what is DTMS? That's the Digital Title Management Service. That's basically the behind-the-scenes actor that's checking and verifying and making sure that the information that is being presented to the Title Issuing Authority is accurate.
Speaker 6 00:46:60
from the point of view of DTMS. There's a handshake that happens between DTMS and VITAS in West Virginia that makes sure that they recognize each other and they're not going to listen to anybody else if someone else tries to tell them to update information. A big part of that is the claim tokens. Now, this is a patent that is held by Champ Titles. Champ Titles owns the patent to claim token. So every digital title has a claim token associated.
Speaker 6 00:47:37
with it. The root token that always will exist for any digital title is ownership. Someone has to own that title for it to exist. When a digital title is created, there's always going to be an owner. Another one that we've created is the reassignment claim token. That allows me to, sell my ticket to Patrick as a dealership. And we've already started doing that within the framework of Clearinghouse. We're enabling reassignment now. So that's the second digital.
Speaker 6 00:48:10
claim token that we're creating. There will be more to come in the future, but that's kind of where we are right now. So we'll look at the digital title. The one on the left is the one that's in the 2024 J.D. Powerbook. It's our first digital title. The first digital title that was issued ever in the United States looks like this. It's got owner information. It's got the title number. It's got the VIN. It's got lien information on it.
Speaker 6 00:48:44
And it's got a 64-bit hash that acts as part of the handshake, making sure that this is the accurate information that's presented. We've updated it for the 2025 JD PowerBook in a few ways. We worked with the state of West Virginia. There's a document form ID on it now. Also, there's a header that points to, you know, this looks more like the rest of the documentation that's used by the DMV.
Speaker 6 00:49:14
There's new language that updates what's needed to transfer a digital title with the digital title reassignment and ownership. We'll talk about that in just a moment. And then we've added the DMV logo just to add that little bit of visual recognition that this is an official documentation. Move to the next one. So the reassignment of ownership. This essentially replicates what the back of the physical title is used for the front of the physical title is essentially that digital title that we just saw.
Speaker 6 00:49:50
This is a new document that replicates the back of the title that allows the owner of the title to basically reassign the title to another party. So it's got a unique reassignment number. It has a pointer to the digital title itself. There's also another another token that's issued. This is the claim token for reassignment. Federal odometer disclosure is required. And then there's a place at the bottom for signatures as well.
Speaker 6 00:50:28
And there's verbiage that indicates that you can't transfer a reassignment without the reassignment of ownership. This is part of the documentation package that's required for an out-of-state jurisdiction to accept the digital title. So digital title interstate transactions, we've got the evidence of vehicle ownership represented by the digital title. We have evidence of consent to reassign ownership. That's captured in who the owner reassigns the vehicle to.
Speaker 6 00:51:06
And the consent is captured with the signatures and then the attestation of odometer reading. Any questions about the digital title itself? So this was exciting. Back in May, we had the first digital title that was requested by a party through DDI. And in I think it was June 16th that it was accepted, transferred to the state of Minnesota.
Speaker 6 00:51:39
We were up until that point there was chattering on LinkedIn and such about competitors trying to basically they were nipping at our heels. Trying to be the first ones to issue a true digital title. We planted our flag on the moon first. Champ Titles issued the first digital title and the first intrastate digital title transference. So when you're talking, yeah, it's exciting when you're talking to your family members, maybe through the holidays, they ask, you know, what does that company that you work at do?
Speaker 6 00:52:16
You can talk about DMV stuff, but this this is truly like something to be excited about. We issued the first digital title ever. So awesome stuff. And digital title marketplace acceptance. So where we are right now, that first digital title was accepted in Minnesota. So we see that as an emerging state. We're working with them, still giving each new digital title, kind of through this pilot period, a true white glove experience, making sure that when a partner issues a digital title, currently it's only through Clearinghouse, that we're working with the.
Speaker 6 00:52:58
jurisdiction that they're going to transfer it to, to make sure, you know, this is all basically explaining this is all in the up and up. Here's the evidence that we have. It's in the J.D. Power book. West Virginia is issuing these. It's helping us to lend credence to that organization to transfer it to other states. So there's a lot of states that haven't quite been activated yet. The blue ones you'll see, we're planning to bring native support for West Virginia digital title to a lot of those neighboring states, especially as we start to talk in the future in a couple of slides.
Speaker 6 00:53:35
We'll talk about dealer vaults. So West Virginia dealers will soon be able to issue digital titles. And obviously we need to partner up with those neighboring states to accept those as they start seeing more transfers. Thank you. But Minnesota had the first one that was accepted. South Carolina has accepted them as well. And we're also working with Colorado as emerging. We're continuing to track this map. So it's going to keep getting updated. The more digital titles that are issued as we go through this pilot period,
Speaker 6 00:54:07
and as we expand, we're about to expand like well past the current limits. So working with those extra states until we're eventually, you know, hopefully next year we're able to say like we're green across the board. We're mature. They're being accepted everywhere. So this map will continue to be updated. So look for updates on that.
Speaker 2 00:54:30
And Tyler, do you want to talk about roadmap? Absolutely. um so kind of where are we headed from here in terms of digital title so um like miguel said we are sort of putting the bow on we're calling phase one of digital title which is to let clearinghouse uh nrbs or clearinghouse users sort of use it um and kind of be our missionaries in a way bringing this to new states um garnering their acceptance of the digital title there are some roadblocks we're kind of facing there um really more on the technical side than anything but um by you know mid to end of the year um here in the next month or so that will.
Speaker 2 00:55:04
be ready we'll kind of put a bow on phase one and then phase two is kind of turning our focus into the state so how do we enable digital title for dealers in the state how do we enable it for consumers in the state of west virginia um so title vault to miguel's point is where we're going to head next that is really augmenting the dealer portal that we looked at in the first session with the ability to you know consume and transact on digital titles so, being able to accept trade-ins for vehicles with digital titles um accepting trade-ins for vehicles without digital titles, and kind of on-ramping them to that digital experience.
Speaker 2 00:55:36
And then later in 2025, really later in Q1 of 2025, I would say, that's when we would have the owner portal or MyDMV.gov as it's branded. That is where you as a consumer will be able to receive your digital title, and take a lot of self-service actions, scheduling an appointment with DMV, transferring your title to another person, doing your registration, those sorts of things. But really all centered around the digital title as the core asset versus the paper title. And then later in the year, the ability to what we call remote casual sale,
Speaker 2 00:56:07
so selling from consumer to consumer, without having to go into the DMV at all. So there would be no paper filled out, completely digital experience, much like selling a ticket. I select Patrick as the recipient, Patrick gets the asset in sort of like a pre-state, like a pending state, if you will. The DMV would obviously get to approve that. And then Patrick would receive his title, no need to send the documents to the mail, or wait weeks or months to receive your paper title. So. A lot of really exciting stuff, to Miguel's point. And again, much like CAVE, this is all emerging.
Speaker 2 00:56:39
We're learning a lot along the way. There are, I think, 10, roughly, claim types that we have sort of spec'd out. Two or three of them Miguel mentioned earlier. We've got others as well for different parties and people that might touch the digital title in some way to unlock different ways to use the asset. So again, another growing and emerging kind of vertical, champ, but really exciting stuff going on. I believe that is it, and it brings us to Q&A. So we've got just about 15, a little over 15 minutes for Q&A.
Speaker 2 00:57:10
So I'm going to open the floor to the room. I don't see anything in the chat so far. So what questions? Yeah, Neil. Are these digital titles in the wallet when you call them? They will be, yeah.
Speaker 6 00:57:21
So yeah, the question was, can you store a digital title in the wallet? Oh, yeah. So, we will be able to do that once the owner portal is available. The owner portal is really going to unlock citizens, being able to, at first, hold and view their digital titles, but ultimately, as Tyler showed, being able to transact and actually like transfer usage.
Speaker 6 00:57:53
Ultimately, we're down the line. We're talking about if you're going out of town for a month and you want to let a friend of yours use your car, you would be able to transfer rights of that. They would be able to show an officer, hey, my friend let me borrow his car. It's all on the up and up here. So, I mean, that's future state. But yes, to your point, yeah, ultimately, you're going to be able to see that digital title in your wallet and hold it as well.
Speaker 5 00:58:25
um can you talk a little bit more about how we currently access different titles now so i know wallet is you know next year future state but someone like Keysack you know yeah how what.
Speaker 6 00:58:37
does that look like interesting for people so what does that look like is difficult because it's headless uh it's part of clearinghouse so they will um put in a request through the api of the swagger uh to generate a document um if they if they, Guys back me up on this. Get the technical details wrong. So you'll generate a digital title when you want to create a digital title that creates the new digital title. If you don't print it out, because ultimately when you are selling it and part of the package that you're giving to the buying party is the digital title, the digital reassignment of ownership.
Speaker 6 00:59:20
If you need to retrieve the digital title, you'll do a get post with Swagger, then get then print out or send the PDF along to the buying party, along with the digital title reassignment.
Speaker 5 00:59:37
And my second question is, when a digital title is issued, does the DTRO form automatically issued as well, or is that upon when an action like a tip is. 
Speaker 6 00:59:48
Great, great question. So when it's created, it's just ownership. Sometimes they might, they might issue, like, they want to generate and then generate the reassignment, like immediately back to back, but they can do the digital title first, wait a couple of weeks until there's a hire, and then reassign.
Speaker 2 01:00:07
Yeah, it's kind of like the front and back of the title. So the front of the title is Libby has ownership of this asset. The back of the title is only filled out when you want to transfer.
Speaker 5 01:00:14
Yeah, but you already have it. It's ready to go. So I'm sure there was discussion of, I was just curious.
Speaker 6 01:00:19
Yes, let's pick it online. Anybody else. 
Speaker 7 01:00:27
I'm supposed to be passing West Virginia. The three methods are mail-in, the walk-in, and the dealers. I guess what percentage of each makes up the total transaction. 
Speaker 4 01:03:10
Um, I did not look at the dashboard now.
Speaker 2 01:03:14
These are complete ballpark numbers. Um, I would say roughly like a majority, 60%, if not more, probably going to be dealer submissions. Thinking, you know, that's most of the time where people buy cars is at dealerships. The other two methods are either for non-registered dealers or dealers that don't use ERT or, uh, like casual sale. If you sold me your car, I could fill out a paper application and walk it in. Could happen, but most often than not, you're going to buy it at a dealership. So most of the volume we see is through, um, the e-submission, but some are, uh, kind of the process that now let me show you creating a.
Speaker 2 01:03:47
new transfer from scratch. Thank you.
Speaker 4 01:03:52
anybody online any questions i don't see any don't be shy you can unmute yourself microphone is working.
Speaker 2 01:04:03
i hope so we tested it they're not yelling at us in the chat yeah.
Speaker 5 01:04:07
sorry i have another question um so it kind of piggybacks on it just so in kentucky where cavus is still a system of record we are not so obviously we're not capturing those walk-ins or man will we ever be able to or will that always lit as long as they have cavus will those transactions always go there uh or will we ever be able to capture those.
Speaker 4 01:04:30
well that's a good question i feel like they will be using cavus because it is a project as far as i learned um they have at least for eight ninety years already but they just launched oh yeah yeah i don't think yeah i think that's what i think, good, That's a good question. I don't know if Eric seems on.
Speaker 8 01:04:53
I'm on. This is Ian. Hey, Libby. So we'll never capture walk-ins, right? That's not part of our financial agreement with the state is to process those. However, when we start to integrate with CAVIS, we will start to be able to pick up the walk-in ELT side of things. So if they walk in and put a lien on the vehicle and it's a lender participating ELT, that would flow through our system. But the actual titling would not.
Speaker 4 01:05:20
Gotcha. Okay. Thanks, Ian.
Speaker 8 01:05:22
Yep.
Speaker 7 01:05:25
So there's a digital title. Is there any plans to integrate any sort of digital registration. 
Speaker 2 01:05:32
Yeah, that is going to vary on the state. The answer is yes, with an asterisk. In the state of West Virginia, they have digital reg already, so we'll sort of marry those two up. In a new state that doesn't have that, we can certainly roll it out. But I will say digital reg as a market feature is much further along than digital title by far. There's a lot of states that have digital reg in some capacity, so there's a lot of precedent in that space already.
Speaker 6 01:05:53
Digital title truly is like nascent, and we're forging the path forward. We're trailblazers in that respect. But yeah, a lot of states have the registration aspect. I've got a question. I haven't talked to leadership in a minute. So I know we have digital titles with West Virginia. They've been an awesome partner to work with. And I know we've talked to a few other states who are interested in hearing more about it. I think you were also at ANBA, where West Virginia was talking about. Yeah. So what's next, kind of looking past West Virginia. 
Speaker 2 01:06:28
yeah that's the question of the hour um that's i'll kind of give a an intro and then maybe i'll defer to ian um on more of the state side but i've heard there are interest interested parties even states that we've talked to in the past about non-digital title things are now re-engaging with us to speak about digital titles so a lot of excitement i will say ohio there's been some interesting you know beau and team did a demo a couple weeks back to ohio that went over really really well um the state of iowa and ambo was very interested um, And as you could imagine, I mean, states around West Virginia are kind of hearing about what's going on and they have kind of that FOMO going on.
Speaker 2 01:07:04
This whole system that we built in West Virginia, like how can we get a piece of that? So I imagine that as folks start to see this, the interest will start to grow and we'll see a lot of states coming to us for digital titles.
Speaker 6 01:07:14
And I think another driver will be once the dealers start seeing the benefits of digital titles, the dealers in West Virginia are going to start talking to dealers outside of the state and that will really get the ball rolling.
Speaker 2 01:07:26
Yeah, absolutely. And as folks in West Virginia take their digital titles out of state to out-of-state dealers, they'll see that for the first time and sure spark some interest. Ian, any other traction on that front to share. 
Speaker 8 01:07:37
No, I think you covered it from a, you know, kind of what we have from a BD perspective. I think there's three or four states. The nice thing about the digital title and kind of our communication with AMBA is that we're helping AMBA kind of set the standard, right? AMBA's been working on digital titles for, I don't know, 15, 20 years. They still have not. completed their analysis we've already obviously you've heard from the team we're releasing it we have digital titles we're transferring out of state so we're making huge progress but the key thing with AMBA that is good for us is that there's something called like digital title.
Speaker 8 01:08:11
readiness and you have to have real-time NVIDAS you have to have digital or electronic ERT right you have to have fully implemented ELT so even the states that want to get the digital title they might first become a client of ours in an ERT or an ELT aspect before they get the digital titles because all that is necessary in order to be a fully digital state and the only thing I'll.
Speaker 5 01:08:37
add since I interact a lot with the market and jurisdictions is to Ian's point AMBA has been discussing digital titles for many years but up until now it's always been like oh yeah eventually we get to this point and now that there is a digital title in the market it gets real I think that there's been more momentum and then to Tyler's point as more and more states interact with the digital title and, more and more of a reality um yeah just lends itself to yeah more like through readiness and because i think there's always been talk about it but it's just taken forever and so it's just.
Speaker 5 01:09:09
kind of moving the needle from that like i'm interested one one you know whenever it gets here to actually taking action and implementing it yeah kind of bringing it back to the eat.
Speaker 6 01:09:21
ticketing um metaphor like i was born in the early 80s so i remember when you had to like go to a box office and they would give you like pieces of paper and like for a long time like uh when i talked to friends um parents especially like if they wanted a ticket to something like even once e-tickets were available they're like oh no i want i want the real thing um but now like enough time has passed.
Speaker 6 01:09:54
uh with the maturity of digital e-ticketing that like even my parents are getting you know e-tickets and uh mobile uh boarding passes and things like that so um it's really just uh like, adoption right it's just there's going to always going to be early adopters there's always going to be people that drag their feet so we're entering a new world um it's time to bring the rest of the.
Speaker 5 01:10:16
world with us whether they like it or not yeah that printed version that backwards compatibility ability is pretty critical because you always have that subset that wants something tangible.
Speaker 9 01:10:27
from feet to hold um so it's a good bridge yeah since we don't have any people words since it's just a title and if the story is for features how can the dealer access their titles right now.
Speaker 6 01:10:45
So currently, they're only being issued through clearinghouse. So the clearinghouse partner that has the rights to generate digital titles, they can get digital titles, you know, as they need to. And we're, think of it as like, we've got one lane going right now. And once we add the dealer vault, that's going to open up for West Virginia dealer to dealer within the state. So we're adding additional lanes. Once the owner portal is available, that's adding another lane, they can view and print digital titles. Once they are able to transact on those, we've got all lanes going and traffic can really start flowing.
Speaker 6 01:11:39
Oh, you can you can print it or send a PDF. So the title, the asset itself is kept behind. It's in DTMS. So anything like once when they generate the printed digital title, you can scan it, it points to DTMS. When you put in a request to the API, that points to DTMS. So the actual asset itself is held in DTMS.
Speaker 5 01:12:10
On the blockchain, right. 
Speaker 2 01:12:11
Yeah. In the BTOS system of record. Yes.
Speaker 4 01:12:15
And just to add, once you actually request the, from my understanding, that's the first thing that they have to do, right? How you want your title, do you want digital paper? So that's the first thing that they have to do.
Speaker 3 01:12:29
Yeah.
Speaker 4 01:12:34
Anything else to add now, Martin. 
Speaker 7 01:12:38
I guess, like, if you have it up there on the wall, like, that's going to kind of finish everything. Thank you. Yeah. Like, you can think of it as, like, the digital title itself just exists, like, in the cloud, basically. But that's, like, if you need a representation of it, like, currently just giving us a recent request and we'll get that out of the way.
Speaker 6 01:12:55
I meant to call attention to it, if I could just be obnoxious and show our wall of accomplishments over here. And, yeah, thank you for pointing to it. A copy of the very first digital title is printed and framed on the wall. So we'll stop.
Speaker 2 01:13:12
Yes. Definitely stop by. And if you are in the office and you're curious, you can come by my desk. I've got way too many copies of the printed digital title of ETRO, page two of an ETRO. So happy to talk digital titles.
Speaker 3 01:13:25
I think it's the first digital title. It's the first car. It's like the next one in the queue. What was it. 
Speaker 6 01:13:33
So, so we identified the partner through whom the who would be good to work with through the transaction of issuance, they had to have the understanding of when you bring this to a new jurisdiction, it's the first one, like you're going to encounter some obstacles will work with you, West Virginia DMV will work with you. So we had to find a willing partner. DDI was a great service provider for the partner, and Key Savvy was the first dealership that we worked with to have the digital title issued, they had to find a buyer who was willing to, if this takes a little bit of time to get to them, it's okay we understand this is the first so great partners to work.
Speaker 3 01:14:21
I think. Somebody.
Speaker 2 01:14:29
Should buy a car that. Yeah.
Speaker 4 01:14:43
All right, anybody else online. 
Speaker 2 01:14:47
Going once, going twice, sold. All right, well, thanks again, everyone. That brings us to the end of the showcase series. So I really hope this was enjoyable and informative for everyone. Like I said, you know what we all look like and you know what products we represent. So please come bug us with any questions you've got. And if there's anything we can do to help, just reach out.
Speaker 3 01:15:15
Thank you so much for being here.
Summary: 
## Meeting Information
> Date: 2026-01-23 14:18:00  
> Location: [Insert Location]  
> Participants: [Speaker 1] [Speaker 2] [Speaker 3] [Speaker 4] [Speaker 5] [Speaker 6] [Speaker 7] [Speaker 8] [Speaker 9]
## Meeting Notes
- Topic Title: Session overview and agenda for product suite
  - Third of three sessions covering VTOS/VTAS, CADE, and DTMS; prior sessions covered ETRS & Clearinghouse, then ELTS & Communications.
  - Aim: demonstrate how DMV-related products use ecosystem data and complete digital titling, focusing on DMV-side processing (steps 23) and digital title delivery (step 4).
  - Schedule: 2:303:30 with Q&A via chat.
- Topic Title: Paper-based title process recap (customer journey)
  - Steps: dealership paperwork submission to DMV, queue review, error feedback loops, approval, and mailed paper title.
  - Todays products target streamlining DMV review and approval.
- Topic Title: VTAS/VTOS product overview and objectives
  - VTOS supports title administration, application processing, and registration management to improve DMV efficiency without changing core functions, enabling higher transaction throughput via streamlined workflows.
- Topic Title: VTOS in West Virginia (system of record)
  - VTOS is WVs system of record with a centralized database (~950,000 census processes; ~2 million title records).
  - Intake channels: dealer submissions (via ETRS/Clearinghouse), mail-ins, walk-ins, drop-offs; majority (~60%+) via dealers/e-submission.
  - Clerk functions include receiving, processing, data entry, reviewing applications, and managing titles/registrations.
  - Screens include transfer queues and transfer agreement detail for evidence comparison; walk-ins allow clerks to create transfers, print, and perform post-approval actions (transfer/edit/renew).
- Topic Title: VTOS integrations and behind-the-scenes processing (WV)
  - Integrations for validation and post-approval data flow: VIN decoding (Vintel/VIN decoding), in-progress out-of-state title verification, Tyler Technologies for billing, Celtic for plates/POS (WV-specific), data confirmation via IHS and Experian, and data exchanges with aggregators.
- Topic Title: External integration question (MVR/reporting companies)
  - VTAS provides YASI data; MVR/reporting companies like YASI/ADP123 tie into the system (details not specified).
- Topic Title: VTOS in Kentucky (not system of record)
  - Kentuckys system of record is KAVIS; VTOS acts as a cockpit for dealer-submitted transactions (dealer agreement, reassignment, duplicate title). No walk-ins via VTOS.
  - Workflow: review in VTAS, reject for mismatches, approve then manual dual entry into KAVIS; queues include KAVIS Action Required.
  - Integrations: NADA for usage tax validation; Tyler Technologies for billing.
  - Future: direct VTASKAVIS integrations to eliminate manual entry and broaden integrations.
- Topic Title: VTOS Product Roadmap and Upcoming UI Redesign
  - Expansion initiatives: dealer licensing (issuance/edits/revocations, dealer plate management for WV), watercraft titling support, and long-term IDs/driver licensing integration.
  - Power user UI redesign: single-page detail view combining evidence and data to reduce scrolling and speed decisions.
- Topic Title: Introduction to CADE (Compliance Automated Decisioning Engine)
  - CADE intakes and transforms multi-source data, analyzes patterns, and outputs decisions to internal/external systems (e.g., document identification, data validations).
  - Example: detects title origin (e.g., Missouri), flags NMVTIS/VIN data mismatches (e.g., salvage brand, model year variance) with confidence scores for document type.
  - Learning via repetition and labeled examples; early-stage with planned integrations into Clearinghouse, VTOS (centralizing third-party data for a single-pane review), and communications/GLR/ETRS for validation and fraud capture. External interest from CBR, DBI, DealerTrack.
- Topic Title: Digital Titles Concept and Benefits
  - Paper titles: legal proof with risks (washing, counterfeits, long cycle times).
  - ELT: centralized but not easily transactable across states without paper conversion.
  - Digital titles: secure pointers to immutable records on a permissioned blockchain; multiple copies can exist, with backend verification to validate ownership and prevent unauthorized changes; enables secure modern transactions.
- Topic Title: DTMS and Claim Tokens
  - DTMS verifies and synchronizes with VTOS (WV) via secure handshake, ensuring only authorized updates.
  - Claim tokens (Champ Titles patents): ownership token (root) and reassignment token (used for transfers via Clearinghouse); potential for more token types.
  - Digital title formats: 2024 JD Power version (owner, title number, VIN, lien info, 64-bit hash); 2025 adds document form ID, DMV-style header, updated transfer language, DMV logo.
- Topic Title: Reassignment of Ownership and Interstate Transactions
  - Reassignment document mirrors the back of a physical title with unique reassignment number, pointer to digital title, reassignment claim token, odometer disclosure, and signatures; verbiage clarifies dependency on ownership/reassignment documents.
  - Interstate evidence package includes ownership proof (digital title), consent to reassign (recipient/signatures), and odometer attestation.
- Topic Title: Market Adoption and First Digital Title Transfer
  - First digital title requested in May via DDI; transferred to Minnesota on June 16. Minnesota and South Carolina have accepted; Colorado emerging; targeting neighboring states to West Virginia.
  - White-glove support during pilot; adoption map tracked and updated.
- Topic Title: Digital Title Roadmap (Phase One and Beyond)
  - Phase One: enable Clearinghouse users (NRBS/Clearinghouse) to issue digital titles and evangelize to new states; technical roadblocks noted; target wrap mid-to-end of year.
  - Future expansions: Dealer Title Vault for WV dealer issuance and dealer-to-dealer transfers; coordinate acceptance with neighboring states.
- Topic Title: Phase Timeline and Consumer Owner Portal Plans
  - Phase one wrapping; phase two focuses on enabling digital titles in WV for dealers and consumers.
  - Title Vault augments the dealer portal to consume/transact on digital titles.
  - Target late Q1 2025 for consumer Owner Portal (MyDMV.gov) to receive/manage digital titles (appointments, title transfer, registration), with remote casual sale (consumer-to-consumer) fully digital later in 2025.
- Topic Title: Digital Title Wallet Support and Future Usage Rights
  - Digital titles will be viewable/storable in a wallet via the Owner Portal.
  - Future concept: temporary transfer of usage rights (e.g., lending a car) with verifiable proof for law enforcement.
- Topic Title: Current Access to Digital Titles (Clearinghouse and APIs)
  - Currently issued through Clearinghouse with headless Swagger APIs to generate and retrieve documents.
  - Process: create digital title; optionally generate reassignment immediately or later; retrieve via API (GET/POST) to print or send PDF. DTMS holds the digital asset; printed/PDF representations reference DTMS. System of record referenced as BTOS; blockchain acknowledged.
- Topic Title: DTRO/ETRO Issuance and Title Front/Back Concept
  - Digital title creation represents ownership (front); reassignment generated upon transfer (back), either immediate or deferred.
- Topic Title: Transaction Channels in West Virginia and Volume Mix
  - Three channels: mail-in, walk-in, dealers; majority of volume via dealers/e-submissions. Walk-in/mail-in serve non-registered or non-ERT dealers and casual sales.
- Topic Title: Capturing Walk-ins and Integration with KAVIS and ELT (KY)
  - Walk-in titling not captured by VTOS in KY; with KAVIS integration, walk-in ELT liens can flow through VTOS, but titling remains in KAVIS. Kentucky uses KAVIS as system of record; walk-ins remain there.
- Topic Title: Digital Registration Integration by State
  - Integration varies by state; WV already has digital registration to be paired with digital titles. Many states have digital registration; digital title capability is nascent.
- Topic Title: Expansion Beyond West Virginia and AAMVA Engagement
  - Interest from Ohio (successful demo), Iowa, and neighboring states; dealer-driven momentum expected as benefits spread across state lines.
  - Working with AAMVA on standards; digital title readiness requires real-time NMVTIS, electronic ERT, and fully implemented ELT. States may adopt ERT/ELT first to prepare.
- Topic Title: Adoption Analogy and Backward Compatibility
  - Adoption likened to paper tickets to e-tickets; printed/PDF representations maintain backward compatibility for users preferring tangible documents.
- Topic Title: Dealer Access Pathways and System Architecture
  - Current single access lane via Clearinghouse; upcoming lanes include Dealer Title Vault (dealer-to-dealer in WV) and Owner Portal (view/print, later transact). Users can choose digital or paper at issuance; DTMS holds the asset with API requests pointing to DTMS.
- Topic Title: First Digital Title Milestone and Partners
  - First digital title printed/framed; Key Savvy as first dealership partner; DDI provided services; WV DMV collaboration enabled issuance, supported by an informed buyer.
## Next Arrangements
- [ ] Monitor chat and respond to unanswered questions from the session.
- [ ] Continue development on out-of-state title verification in VTOS (WV).
- [ ] Explore and implement direct integration between VTAS and KAVIS to remove manual dual entry (KY).
- [ ] Validate usage tax logic integration with NADA for Kentucky transactions.
- [ ] Align with Tyler Technologies on billing workflows for both states.
- [ ] Proceed with VTOS power user UI redesign rollout.
- [ ] Continue CADE training with labeled document examples and expand supported document types.
- [ ] Provide white-glove support for Clearinghouse-issued digital titles during pilot transfers.
- [ ] Engage Minnesota, South Carolina, Colorado, Ohio, Iowa, and neighboring states to expand digital title acceptance.
- [ ] Coordinate with West Virginia DMV on Dealer Title Vault enablement and interstate acceptance planning.
- [ ] Address technical roadblocks impacting Phase One timeline.
- [ ] Prepare and launch Dealer Title Vault for WV dealer digital title transactions.
- [ ] Deliver Owner Portal (MyDMV.gov) by late Q1 2025 with wallet viewing and self-service features.
- [ ] Plan rollout of remote casual sale functionality later in 2025.
- [ ] Coordinate with AAMVA on digital title standards and state readiness (NMVTIS, ERT, ELT).
- [ ] [Insert more]
## AI Suggestions
> 1. Define the VTASKAVIS integration timeline, milestones, owners, and dependencies to eliminate manual dual entry in Kentucky.  
> 2. Specify scope, rollout plan, and milestones for VTOS out-of-state title verification, including targeted states and validation partners.  
> 3. Document technical interfaces for YASI/ADP123 integration (data sets, transport, security, SLAs) for compliance and support.  
> 4. Establish performance targets and success metrics for DMV efficiency improvements (e.g., processing time reduction, queue throughput, error rates).  
> 5. Produce a consolidated inventory of third-party integrations, data flows, and state-specific differences.  
> 6. Detail technical roadblocks for Digital Titles Phase One with mitigation plans, owners, and timelines.  
> 7. Clarify CADE confidence scoring versus data mismatch warnings with user guidance and examples.  
> 8. Create an interstate acceptance playbook (standard artifacts, legal templates, FAQs, support process) for digital titles.  
> 9. Define scope, dependencies, and roadmap for integrating IDs/driver licensing into VTOS.  
> 10. Document DTMS handshake security, audit procedures, and claim token lifecycle management for external review.  
> 11. Provide wallet integration specifics (supported wallets, security model, offline/backup, recovery) and Owner Portal authentication flows.  
> 12. Publish documented API workflows for dealers/clearinghouse partners, including reassignment steps and error handling.  
> 13. Establish a communication plan for out-of-state dealers encountering WV digital titles, including verification steps and contacts.  
> 14. Outline compliance and approval steps for remote casual sale, including DMV review SLAs, identity verification, and dispute resolution.