Transcript from2026-01-21T16:01:08Z
Speaker 1 00:00:00
What's your favorite topic? Just mine. I need you to teach me.
Speaker 2 00:00:11
I'd wear it again to swag.
Speaker 3 00:00:20
Are we golfing later across the street? Is that what I saw. 
Speaker 1 00:00:24
Yeah, I think after a weekend. I'm not having them open it because we're going in before they open. Yeah. But once they open, we can go see plays if people want to do it.
Speaker 3 00:00:32
They definitely don't want to see me swing some clubs. Yeah.
Speaker 4 00:00:49
I'm going to actually share this on. Zoom, just because I'm also going to record this. I'm trying to get a lot better at recording meetings, because I feel like it.
Speaker 2 00:01:23
Recording in progress. So what I wanted to accomplish today is talk through the.
Speaker 4 00:01:52
So really where core and AMBA meet. I know we've talked a little bit about this. We've had some whiteboarding sessions around this, but I think I've got it about 85% there. I'm sure Kyle and the team can tell me where I'm wrong. I have read most of the specs documentation. I don't want to anymore. So really, this is all about kind of aligning on how the core application is going to trigger these AMBA calls, what different things trigger,
Speaker 4 00:02:25
and then how core will handle the responses. So I have created kind of an overview document. This is obviously not super detailed, but I think it paints a picture really about trying to communicate when each of these will be called. And when it won't be called, so a lot of this will be off of issuance, but there is also a violation world and as well as there are things that will run in a state. So, each one of these here on new issuance.
Speaker 4 00:03:09
Everything is going to basically trigger everything. The only ones that are dependent on things are, obviously, if we upload a U.S. passport, we're going to trigger U.S. BDS. If we don't, then we don't. Same thing with the non-U.S. citizens. So, those are kind of the decisions. If we're issuing a CDL commercial, so either a CDL or a CLP, we also have to kick off DAC. So, those are kind of the decisions.
Speaker 4 00:03:39
And then the MedCert, which is all kind of part of specs, but a separate section of specs. And then a few of these are very simple verified checks and some of them actually have a lot more that has to be done. The simple ones, SSOLV, USPVS, and SAVE. I actually haven't done too much in SAVE because I know we also haven't done too much on that side as well, but really it's are you verified or not.
Speaker 4 00:04:13
Have is actually one that we are going to run in the background. However, in Louisiana they don't want to see, they don't care about any of it. It will not be a blocker for anything, so whether they come back verified or not, they don't.
Speaker 2 00:04:28
care and they don't want to see it. So what are we running in? It is something that they have to run for the Secretary of State.
Speaker 4 00:04:41
We have to run it, and we have to save the results.
Speaker 3 00:04:45
We have to save it somewhere.
Speaker 4 00:04:46
Yes, but we don't want to show the user, and we also don't want to block the workflow. So you're just saying that we ran it. Yes, and I believe there's an integration that Isaac is something to do with reporting the results, but at the end of the day, they don't care. Now we could get to another detail, but that is something that we think about in the future. But the MedCert is similar.
Speaker 4 00:05:22
in which you are either verified, certified, or not. The two that kind of come back as red flags would be back. Yes. So there's an essence of the matches that we received. Do any of them have blockers on them? And there could be multiple matches that relate to a single person. Again, we're going to go into detail on these in a minute.
Speaker 4 00:05:53
And then specs is really we have to either at the end of the day say, no, there is not an existing pointer. Or we have to select a single existing pointer that we're going to have. So, again, we'll get into that. Assuming that these all kind of pass and unblock the workflow, there are. A separate step after the completion of issuance or the update. So again, this is running in the middle of the flow. Once we complete that, depending on the results of the specs, we have to either add a pointer or run a change data record.
Speaker 4 00:06:40
And then same thing with the updated upgrade. If there are changes relevant, we may need to update them.
Speaker 5 00:06:48
Or update the pointer.
Speaker 4 00:06:49
Update the pointer, yes. So if in the update we changed ID data, so that's really name, date of birth, social security number, DLN, that's when we have to update the pointer. If we didn't edit any of those relevant information, then we actually don't have to. And then the only other really transaction that's going to trigger all of these is when we're adding a violation.
Speaker 4 00:07:19
So there are things with both PDPS and specs that we may have to do when adding or updating a violation. So that's kind of the high level. What I wanted to kind of walk through, but before I get into the details, does that make questions. 
Speaker 1 00:07:41
All of these were saving up responses, right? Yeah. I think the one that we're calling out is more. Okay, so you have a saving card. We have data. Is that like a separate place we also need to store the data that's not just restored. 
Speaker 4 00:07:55
Yeah. So specifically the MedServe response actually comes back with data, additional data that we need to save.
Speaker 1 00:08:03
So it doesn't do it for us.
Speaker 4 00:08:04
Yeah, versus just saying that they're verified.
Speaker 3 00:08:07
The last. And I think last week we touched on, there's several, at least on PDPS, I don't know if this is true for specs, there's several transactions that we're questioning whether we even need to do them or not.
Speaker 5 00:08:26
It's not the ones you listed at least, but there's different kinds of searches that can be initiated by, like, for example, a third party employer. I don't believe we're a vessel for it. What's the other one that you were going to get into. 
Speaker 3 00:08:36
It was like a federal investigation. Like, I don't know.
Speaker 5 00:08:42
Or something like that. Or maybe another questionnaire that's more for OMB to say, like, well, what are you supporting? But it's just FYI. Because, like, at a point, the basic search, yeah. Yeah, we have to do those.
Speaker 4 00:08:54
Yeah. I remember seeing those, and I have the same question of, like, is that something we're responsible for? Is that really another way that they can do that? If they're responsible.
Speaker 3 00:09:06
I haven't looked yet, but some of those. Transactions might have unsolicited requests, and in that case, I think we have to do it. We have to be able to respond to them. That's my understanding. It's more on our side. Do we, are we going to utilize it or not? Like, are we going to call out somebody else to get that information. 
Speaker 5 00:09:30
Any unsolicited bonds that are handled largely the same across the different, we're providing like the same object back, so, anyway. I mean, I guess you're probably about to get into this, but the first concern is like, you know, so AMBA has a timeout window, I think it's about 12 seconds, and if you're doing like a broad search, and this is like a fuzzy match, by the way, which is one of the ways you can get multiple employers back, because most of them really shouldn't have more than one employer unless it's a multi-credential state situation, so if you get more than one and some state doesn't respond with their data in time, you get a partial response, and it's labeled that way.
Speaker 5 00:10:11
And you're supposed to wait for the whole thing and then match it up, but you can't wait. If they never respond, what do we show the front end? Do we have our own internal timeout where we say, this failed, we're not going to worry about it. 
Speaker 1 00:10:23
Well, no, but it's a partial though.
Speaker 5 00:10:24
Yeah. But then do we tell the analysts like, hey, here's some of it, there's more maybe coming. 
Speaker 1 00:10:32
Yeah, Oregon slopes, or...
Speaker 5 00:10:34
Yeah.
Speaker 4 00:10:38
That's all good insights. And one thing I wanted to go through is the specs side of things. I think that's the most complex one to understand, you know, how are we handling multiple results? How are we going to go through that? And which queries, right? There's a bunch of different ones that can run. So I want to make sure that we're understanding, like,
Speaker 4 00:11:09
which ones we're running and when.
Speaker 5 00:11:12
If the broad search, the CDO one is the one that's picked off by default. When would they want to optionally kick off a verification inquiry than their own search. 
Speaker 4 00:11:22
Yeah, how does that look well and can we click on so my understanding in my research is if we have the full security number? And or the previous, driver's license number we can actually kick straight to a verification inquiry and Nine times out of ten we're going to have that information.
Speaker 5 00:11:42
So we have to know the state as well or is that only for.
Speaker 3 00:11:47
State-to-state ones at least for some of the PDPS like driver status you have to have, Okay, yeah, and then the document type is optional, But if it's not provided.
Speaker 4 00:12:05
Yeah, so my understanding and again correct me if I'm wrong because I wouldn't say that I'm great at reading these documents, Is in order to do the verification inquiry, you can either have the full name, date of birth and security number, or if you have the name, date of birth and the driver license, plus the jurisdiction code, then you can run. So nine times out of 10, we're going to have that right. The time that we're not, it's probably going to be when there's a security number is a nine or, you know, either way.
Speaker 4 00:12:41
But in our flow, we should have the name, the date of birth and the social security number. If they're coming from another state, they should be inputting the state and the previous driver's license number.
Speaker 5 00:12:53
Maybe by default, we run CDO2, and if we don't get anything, you expand the broad search and see what happens.
Speaker 4 00:12:58
Yeah, so that's what I was thinking or proposing. Assuming that we have that right, there may be an instance that we don't, at that point we would run the CDO1, but nine times out of ten we are. So if we run the CDO2, if results are returned and we have an exact match, then there's no need for anything. If results aren't returned, then we go up to the CDO1 to do a broader search to make sure that we didn't.
Speaker 4 00:13:32
There may be no match and there may be no match expected, especially if someone's getting their first license ever. But especially, and I don't need to make that distinction from the analyst, does this have to be an analyst driven? I know originally we were saying we don't want the results to have to kick off another inquiry without a user driven action.
Speaker 5 00:13:57
It's technically very challenging, first of all.
Speaker 4 00:14:02
Um, so I wanted to kind of get alignment on probably, um, you know, so if we want to make it a user driven action, um, then I have, we can actually do that. The results would just be, Hey, no matches found and give them a button, kick off the broad search, or, you know, we could also give them, we can give them two options, kick off a broad search or say, you know, person's 15.
Speaker 4 00:14:33
Like I'm not expecting it. If you didn't bring any results back, then that's expected. Or do we force them to, um, run the broad search? And maybe that's more of a no and B question than a last question.
Speaker 5 00:14:45
I think trying to like chain them together automatically, not only are there too many cases to build in, but the analysts might be confused on what happened exactly.
Speaker 4 00:14:53
Yeah.
Speaker 5 00:14:54
There might be something different they want to do in a particular instance and like we.
Speaker 2 00:14:57
already did all this stuff and, you know. And then there's the other question of what do they want to see? Because those payloads are pretty big.
Speaker 5 00:15:07
They probably don't want all of it. So what is the minimum response that we're going to buy into? So right now we're going with, we have two possible responses. One's the full JSON for the admin page idea. And then there's this restricted set that comes back to a front end. So what is that. 
Speaker 4 00:15:27
Yeah. So I did ask OMV that.
Speaker 2 00:15:29
And their response was the information that they would need is name. 
Speaker 4 00:15:43
date of birth, sex, DLN number, social security number, and jurisdiction for children. So that's kind of my thought process of, you know, when we get to the point of multiple matches. So the thought process here is. It would come back as an issue found that there are multiple possible matches because at the end of the day, we do need to get to a single match. And then please ignore the actual icons. They're just placeholders for now. I'm not saying that we should use these.
Speaker 4 00:16:15
But there would be a button that would then bring them to a list of those exact matches where they would be able to select the correct one or indicate like, hey, at the end of the day, none of these are mine. And I can say that there are no matches because then once we complete the issuance, we would be ready to add.
Speaker 5 00:16:34
What does select do in this case? Someone has entered information and then they're shown these things to select from. What does clicking that do exactly. 
Speaker 4 00:16:46
My proposal is that it would bring you back to the verification list. This would be updated and it would say that you have a match.
Speaker 5 00:16:54
Okay.
Speaker 4 00:16:55
And then our system would know. Yeah. Yeah, and maybe this isn't quite the right UI, UX that we can talk about. Is it more of like a multi-select, and then you hit a final button? I did this last night.
Speaker 5 00:17:10
We're not going to have the one that they select to replace information. Let's put their name in a little bit wrong. But, oh, this is me. Is it going to replace any of it? They're like full name, but they go by.
Speaker 4 00:17:23
I don't think we should go down and do that, no. Yeah. I don't want to get that fancy.
Speaker 3 00:17:29
But you would need some sort of, either that information ID or what they selected, like after we issue the credential, integration with some sort of data to know this, right. 
Speaker 4 00:17:45
Yeah, so if I had three of these come back, multiple John's events. If I selected this one because I know, like, oh, yeah, my John S. Smith is coming from New York, then, yeah, we have to say, like, this is the one.
Speaker 5 00:18:01
Yeah, because then if we do an update pointer, we have to send that exact info or else we're going to not have the right one. Yeah. Because those pointers on there don't have, like, a global unique ID.
Speaker 1 00:18:13
Okay, I was just going to ask, like, do we date forward and you'd be tracking the pointer to customer record? And once it's selected, is that information you still need or is it, like, transient state about the transaction? You see what I'm asking. 
Speaker 5 00:18:24
I think so. I think we certainly need it to, if we want to manipulate that pointer anyway, we have to have that exact data to target that pointer.
Speaker 2 00:18:32
Then we couldn't do the name or we're not going to keep track, really. We could.
Speaker 1 00:18:46
Yeah, like, you know, this John Smith comes back and needs to do something else, do we make you select the pointer again if you were just here last week and you've, you know, we've already sort of found what your record is? You see what I'm saying? Yeah. It's a sync issue. If we want to keep it, there's a sync issue we need to consider.
Speaker 5 00:19:05
Because then there's some expectation that we're going to keep that information updated with letters on the central site as well. And they already, like, have that for you, so there's a little more traffic, but that's what it's for, I guess. I don't know if that's the way to go, is there? We do know that we have to track whether we are someone's SOR, even though that's what AMP does, because there's an instance where you might not be.
Speaker 1 00:19:29
Maybe that's it, right? Like, we would know if you're the SOR if we know what your pointer is.
Speaker 5 00:19:37
Yeah, there's knowing true or false, are we the SOR, in fact, and then there's keeping that data in that row as well, because CD034, our state-to-state requests that they largely bypass central site, there's been a little bit of validation, but they don't check their own pointers. They go right to the state, and someone can kick that off to us, but we are not their SOR, and we have to keep track of this, apparently, so a little more on that, OV does this already, so we're going to import that, and then going forward, we're just going to monitor, change.
Speaker 5 00:20:09
data records, and update as it goes.
Speaker 1 00:20:15
Is today, are the clerks, like in this question on CDO1 or 2 to start, when are they, they're manually doing that today? Like, did you make that decision based on the information I have? No, absolutely no idea.
Speaker 5 00:20:27
Like right now, there are a lot of health tests, there's a lot of specs interactions. I don't know what, I don't know what their frontline analyst knows about what is happening with these integrations on whatever they're looking at.
Speaker 4 00:20:38
But basically, if they try and run this kind of flow for specs, if it doesn't come back in a perfect world of essentially we have an exact match, they call the health test. And they just sit there until the health test figure it out. Sometimes that person has to get on the phone with the other state and say like, hey, who is this person? And so there could be some offline. And they're using uni. to do a lot of that stuff in very strange ways.
Speaker 1 00:21:12
Their intention is to make the clerks.
Speaker 4 00:21:14
a little more self-sufficient and not require that. Yes. Ideally, they would be able to traverse this part of the flow, where there's no match, or there's multiple matches, right match, selected as well. Right now, the help desk, basically, if they don't take this path right here, then they have to help call the help desk. But we want them to be able to get, at least, to this part of it, because there's still.
Speaker 4 00:21:46
an exhalation flow like that, generally, probably. And it may be, hey, I got a bunch of matches back. Or a little of that partial situation where you only have a partial response.
Speaker 1 00:21:57
Right. What do I do now? Yeah. Somebody would get on the phone. Yeah. Yeah.
Speaker 5 00:22:02
Yeah. What if they never respond? Some state system is down for whatever reason and we never get the full payload or we get it 45 minutes later.
Speaker 1 00:22:10
Yeah. Yeah. Do we know, in the case of partial, do we know who we're waiting on? Is there anything valuable in that partial response. 
Speaker 5 00:22:20
So one of the reasons for partial response is that in the AMI system, which is like an older one that a lot of states use. It responds with multiple objects that make up the entire spec status, they call it, and those come in, like, one at a time, and then the central site patches it up for, like, a rest state, but a particular state might only respond with three of those five, let's say, and so we might get, like, the identification document, which is, like, DLN jurisdiction. We might get, like, the person-made information, but we don't get anything else. We don't know what we're going to get, so I guess if we don't get the jurisdiction code, we won't know who it came from, and they don't really tell you who you're waiting on.
Speaker 2 00:23:01
Okay, so then, happy path, you know, we run this, we have an exact match.
Speaker 4 00:23:25
Off the path, we may have to user-driven kick off an additional broad search, or if there's multiple matches, we need to display and let the user select a match. This is going to be probably the 95% coverage by that. The other is there could be an instance where these are so close together that I still don't have enough information to identify it.
Speaker 4 00:23:56
And that's a very small use case, but may need to be kicking off a state-to-state history request to get additional details. I'm proposing that, at least for now, that that isn't completely admin-driven. It stops the work. I'm not going to handle it in this flow. That's going to be, I call the help desk, and I get it there. feature, whatever that looks like to, determine, because I don't.
Speaker 4 00:24:26
want to try and handle that. And again, it's going to be a small use case. We are not going to cover all of the exceptions.
Speaker 5 00:24:35
And one of those cases is like, you know, someone, coming in the window, it's not, they don't always have everything. They might be like, well, I do have like a new CDL in this other state, I think, and we can query that state directly, because they may not have the pointer. It's something they're claiming.
Speaker 4 00:24:50
Yeah. So a lot of this here is going to not be, from a user experience UI perspective, covered.
Speaker 2 00:24:58
in that modal flow that we drew. Just one more question. You were flipping between two different Figma charts. Was there another one that had that or about the Figma UI stuff? The design, yeah. Where is that? I just created it last night.
Speaker 4 00:25:21
I'll put it in my draft somewhere that you don't have access to. Is it online or is that... Yes, I will. I've come to find that our IDLS schema is getting rather large and slow, so I'm going to start breaking them out into their own. Yeah. Violating Figma.
Speaker 5 00:25:44
It's annoying me. I'm sure it's annoying everybody else. What about the Figma violations part. 
Speaker 2 00:25:52
That's why I hate.
Speaker 4 00:25:53
splitting Figma, but we'll figure that out. Okay. I think that is the most complex kind of issuance. Flow, the rest of them, I'm not going to go into like every single detail, but when it comes to things like USPVS, it's really just, you know, did it come back to the verification or not? When you see edit data, that means they're going back to step one of the flow. We're not going to allow them to do that in the mobile flow.
Speaker 4 00:26:27
And then if they do that, we're going to have to.
Speaker 3 00:26:31
Um, for retries, have you thought if they should be like automatic system, just automatically retries the fails. 
Speaker 4 00:26:41
Yes.
Speaker 3 00:26:42
If they'll have an option to manually retry.
Speaker 4 00:26:45
Yeah. Um, I think what we talked about, um, is doing a, uh, auto retry and a delay to it. I can't remember how you were on the call. That was the one time you called in for the OVU. I don't think we've decided how long that delay is. We don't want to auto-kick it off right away. I think we wanted to give a five-second delay. But I think we only want to do that once.
Speaker 2 00:27:13
And if that retry doesn't happen, whether we want to handle that, it's like, help ask for a manual retry.
Speaker 5 00:27:21
Would that retry depend on why you didn't get the response? Like if it just didn't come back? I mean, if you get 500, should we retry that. 
Speaker 3 00:27:31
Probably. I think that's one we wouldn't retry, though. If we get a 500 AMPA, it could be their system's overloaded for a couple seconds or something, and we retract it. But a 400, we wouldn't. That's true. Yeah.
Speaker 5 00:27:46
Yeah, so it's a bad request. Instead of saying, well, I didn't get it.
Speaker 2 00:27:49
Or if it's 401. Right, it should retry. So, again, we do want to do a little bit of that, but we don't want to overload it and keep trying over and over again. So we're just trying one time? Is there a cost associated? I think SSLV.
Speaker 4 00:28:11
Yeah, for SSLV, there is. I think that's the only one that there's a third call cost. It's hard to make.
Speaker 5 00:28:19
Is there one for HAP? Because that hits the same service. It's a social security number. They literally could care less about that call in Louisiana.
Speaker 2 00:28:30
I try and talk about it, but I don't want to. Which one? HAP. You said that you feel like sort of the results of it for some reason? Yeah, the Secretary of State has spoken.
Speaker 3 00:28:41
Have you heard of that for other states yet. 
Speaker 2 00:28:45
I have not been able to even get that insight.
Speaker 5 00:28:50
do we want to talk or have we thought about how we're going to store that i mean is it the every person has the most recent result of that call at any time or do we sort every single.
Speaker 2 00:29:06
response like historically or i think i think it makes sense that we just saved the most recent yeah okay same goes with ssolv um the only little bit of a difference here um is.
Speaker 4 00:29:29
i can't remember if we created this or not um there are um and it is actually a bigger use case than i expected there are people without first names. Which is why in our application, first name is not required. However, on the Social Security side, they will have what they call a placeholder first name. That may be FNU, first name unknown. It may be the word unknown.
Speaker 4 00:30:01
I guess there is someone in Louisiana that has adopted the fun first unknown name. They just now print it on a stencil. SSOB will come back with a negative response if we don't put that name in, because that is on their record. However, we don't want that name to be added to their credential. So we're going to introduce a option for them.
Speaker 4 00:30:33
to indicate that they do not have a first name in their place so they can enter that placeholder's name. And then we need to run that verification. It's not any different. We're not kicking off anything. I just wanted to call out that we should be pulling, if we see results in that, we need to pull that as the first name and not.
Speaker 3 00:30:54
We won't store that fake name on the actual credential and customer record, or should we. 
Speaker 4 00:31:01
I mean, we should save it to the customer record, but it would not be put on the credential. Okay. I think that may be a question to the.
Speaker 3 00:31:09
I was going to ask too, because some of the validations they require a given name.
Speaker 2 00:31:20
So we have to have something. Yeah. So I think saving it would be helpful just if they come back again.
Speaker 4 00:31:30
put it in. We just don't want to get it. We don't want to get it to get printed on the credential.
Speaker 3 00:31:35
As long as there's like one value or a list of values that they always use.
Speaker 4 00:31:40
for that, then that's fine. Everything else is very similar. You're either going to get a verification match, or you're going to get a result like person's dead, which, I don't know what they do if it comes back and the person's standing in front of you, but Social Security thinks you're dead. But that's for them to figure out. That would be a stop condition, and we would just show that as an issue file.
Speaker 5 00:32:07
I think they would have been screaming, basically.
Speaker 3 00:32:11
They're going to have to ask Bruce about that one. That's actually one of the eligible, roles. That is what happened, right? Yeah. Oh, you're right. Yeah. Yeah.
Speaker 4 00:32:25
So that does happen. It actually happened to Bruce, who's on the OTS team down there. He was accidentally recorded deceased because he's a junior. His father died. They killed him instead. So it does happen. PDPS is a little bit more like specs, but at the end of the day, we're not selecting a pointer. We're ensuring that there's no stop conditions, so that one's all located.
Speaker 4 00:32:56
So we would be running a PDPS inquiry on any issuance. If there is no existing pointer, that means they are not a problem driver and we're good to go. This response can come back with multiple matches. It can be multiple matches for a single person because you didn't have a problem in multiple states. You're going to have a pointer per state. There is also a case where it could come back with multiple people with multiple pointers.
Speaker 4 00:33:27
So there's a little bit of a nuance there. However, if it comes back with multiple matches, but all of them are a response of licensed or eligible, we don't care. They could come back with 15, I think 15 is the max responses that will come back. If they're all licensed or eligible, proceed. Even if it's the wrong person, really we don't care. It's if at least one of them comes back with a non-eligible response is when we need to dig in.
Speaker 5 00:33:59
The max is 15. 
Speaker 4 00:33:60
I believe so.
Speaker 5 00:34:01
I thought Spex was 15 and PUS is 50.
Speaker 4 00:34:04
Oh, I might be mixing those up. You're probably right.
Speaker 5 00:34:08
I could have. I mean, we should have.
Speaker 4 00:34:10
There is a max, but yeah, actually now that you say that, I think that's correct. It's 15 for Spex. What we want to do is, if it returns multiple and at least one is not eligible, display a button to let them first see the multiple results. So that would be similar to the specs, but it would bring up.
Speaker 4 00:34:59
This example here, so each of these matches could come back with a status. Again, these could be multiple people, or it could be a single person with multiple states. So there may be a need to understand, like, if this guy, and I know my test data doesn't represent this, but if this is the person that the analyst is looking for, but these two are a completely different person, maybe it comes back and these data births are different,
Speaker 4 00:35:37
then we need the ability for the analyst to say, like, hey, I, you know, this is my person, and I'm good to go. I'm not 100% sure how we want to accomplish that. But if one of these are not eligible, or if there's only a single match, and it's not eligible, then there's an additional call that needs to be made. Um, to understand because PDPS can come back with not eligible, but the state can decide to ignore that and proceed. Um, so that's why, that's when this one gets a little bit more nuanced. Um, and there may be a need to execute an actual DHR request, uh, to get that additional details.
Speaker 4 00:36:28
Um, I spoke with OMV and, uh, eventually they think that analysts should be able to do this, but I think from a complexity standpoint, I want to cut this off, um, at the help desk and the rest of this will be the help desk. But when we run that DHR, we're going to, um, going to have to somehow display a table of the conviction. details that we may get back because those conviction details could be a legitimate stop and if it's a legitimate stop then it is a stop condition and they can't proceed. However, there is an instance where those convictions may be past the end of the suspension date but the pointer hasn't been updated yet or it could be what they call a woo, basically a conviction that the state doesn't actually care about or it could be a stop condition.
Speaker 4 00:37:26
However, you can actually work with the court and get that overrided. No, I do not. That's like more of long term. So I'm trying to just ignore that last one from OMB.
Speaker 5 00:37:37
Are we expected to have some sort of like nightly job that determines whether we can delete one of those pointers. 
Speaker 4 00:37:44
That's actually a good question. It does seem like we do need to.
Speaker 5 00:37:48
If that date runs out or something. Do you know how OB handles that today. 
Speaker 4 00:37:52
Not well.
Speaker 3 00:37:55
I think it's, like, after, what, 10 years, I think that's what...
Speaker 5 00:38:00
I think that's the data retention policy, but I think each conviction will have a particular, like, return-to-duty date or something like that, where it's no longer valid, and then, well, it's like, are we going to retain the data anyway, just because, and then actually delete that pointer, like, yeah.
Speaker 4 00:38:21
Yeah. So, there is a level of the help desk can do an override of the stop condition. So, I think what I'm proposing is basically each one of these, if you have the help desk permissions, you have a button that just allows you to override, and that essentially just overrides the stop condition and allows them to proceed throughout the flow. There's not much more that has to be done with that. It's not like we're updating and telling AMPA, hey, they ignored you. It just...
Speaker 4 00:38:52
It just allows them to proceed. So throughout the designs, I'm proposing kind of, again, ignore the actual icons, but the idea is the help desk would see this icon. If they pulled it up, the analyst would not see this override.
Speaker 1 00:39:08
In the case where it's escalated to the help desk, does the citizen, like, move to the help desk to work through it, or is it a separate function? Yeah. Yeah. So it's like, well, I mean, is the idea that, like, in these situations where something needs to be escalated, you have to grab the record as, like, this needs escalation, and there's, like, a separate set of work done. Yeah.
Speaker 5 00:39:30
Like, right now, the analyst just gets on the phone right there.
Speaker 4 00:39:33
They would. So, yeah, that's the thing on the phone, and the help desk basically pulls up the exact same record and works off that record while the analyst is sitting there with the customer in front of them waiting for the help desk person to. do what they need to do, which is, I think, we talked a little bit about while we were talking about the cart flow, is we do need the ability to have multiple people in this session and update the session.
Speaker 1 00:39:57
Right, versus the help desk does their own inquiries separately.
Speaker 4 00:40:02
Yeah, they may inquiry offline. They may have to call another state. But at the end of the day, they should be able to push a button that unblocks the analyst.
Speaker 1 00:40:09
Like everything that you're seeing, everything that the clerk will see, we want to also show the help desk.
Speaker 3 00:40:16
So are we expecting that eligibility to be persistent in somewhere, not just derived as needed? Like if a help desk person needs to be able to say, OK, you're allowed to proceed, I'm just trying to understand. And I mean, this is kind of getting into the weeds, but trying to understand how that would even work.
Speaker 5 00:40:43
I think they literally clicked something, and it allowed us to flow to continue in the UI. Yeah, like they couldn't go to the next page without that, basically.
Speaker 3 00:40:54
I think we're going to, like, re-determine eligibility in real time, every time. Yeah. Okay. So something would trigger an event to that D&D analyst session to be able to override it, I guess.
Speaker 2 00:41:14
Yeah, basically just unstop them.
Speaker 3 00:41:16
Okay. There's a flag in the session or something. Yeah. How would the help desk know whether...
Speaker 4 00:41:29
that's when they would have to go so we're going to have a completely different place where the help desk can trigger a lot of these additional flows so that might mean they go to where we're going to determine what that looks like but they may need to go and do a state-to-state history request on that person and dig in and understand and read through all of this and then that's what they would use to determine or they may have to call the state and say hey I'm seeing this person and they're ineligible but I'm not getting whatever.
Speaker 3 00:42:00
I need to know okay do we know how many I mean it sounds like there's two help desk functions so far do we know how many times per day they're going to get.
Speaker 4 00:42:15
called for this ideally less than they do today.
Speaker 5 00:42:20
I mean, when we were down there, they're on the phone all the time. Like, yeah, it's constant. And they've got all these terminal windows open where they're doing specs and PDPS stuff with, yeah, old codes.
Speaker 3 00:42:35
Where I was going is I'm wondering, like, do we have enough help desk people here to be able to support? Or are we talking help desk at the state. 
Speaker 4 00:42:44
Oh, yeah. They still would be that point of contact. Our hope is to reduce the volume that gets to their help desk. by allowing the analyst to do a lot more. So some of the things like the SSOLV first name, if the person doesn't have a first name today, that's a help desk thing because they can't do it any other way. The analyst can't do that any other way. So they have to call the help desk. The help desk actually enters the FNU or unknown.
Speaker 4 00:43:15
into the first name field. They run the verification. Then they have to go back and remove the first name from the first name field to allow that the analyst can move on because there's no additional field. So again, those types of things we're trying to free up, and allow the analyst to self-service.
Speaker 3 00:43:35
Do you still have the analyst call the help desk or is it going to go into some sort of work queue or flag. 
Speaker 4 00:43:41
I think we still have to call because it's all there at the end of time.
Speaker 6 00:43:44
Good. So when we're talking about the help desk, how it integrates into IDLS, is it like some sort of separate application that is integrated with it, or is it something that's the admin level view of IDLS? Yeah. It's like another page.
Speaker 4 00:44:02
We have to build, we still have to build this page. And that's on page three, and I'm like, all right, okay, got it. Yeah. Okay, it's coming, got it. Cool, thank you. It is part of what we're going to go live with in September. What it looks like, I have no idea. Perfect. Great. Once we nail this, we'll get that one.
Speaker 2 00:44:20
Yeah, yeah. Okay, so that's kind of the PDPS side.
Speaker 4 00:44:31
DAC is very similar to a lot of other verifications. It's either going to come back with a driver found that's either prohibited or not prohibited. If they're not prohibited, open to keep going. If they are prohibited, then essentially we need to display in the details a phone number that they have to call for return of duty stuff. So that one's pretty simple. There's not much overriding or additional queries we have.
Speaker 4 00:45:05
And, again, that is only commercial drivers, not for.
Speaker 3 00:45:10
Does Zamba charge us on a per transaction? I wonder, like, how, is there any charges between us and Zamba at all. 
Speaker 2 00:45:21
No, it's part of my work.
Speaker 3 00:45:23
I think so. Okay. We're just wondering, you know, if all of these things are kicked off in parallel and, like, one of them returns a stop, then there's no point in, you know, doing anything else. But if there's no charges, then we're just fine.
Speaker 5 00:45:41
Unnecessary traffic, but... I guess there would be like a stop from one, but depending on the particular situation, it might not actually be that they can get issued anyway. Yeah.
Speaker 4 00:45:55
The last one on kind of the middle of the issuance flow is the MedCert. So again, this is CDL only. It has a search inquiry similar to other things. This one, however, if a driver is not found that is a stop condition to be able to get a commercial driver's license or a commercial learner's permit. You have to have a valid MedCert, so that is a stop condition. If the driver is found, but the driver is marked not certified, that is a field to get back.
Speaker 4 00:46:30
in response and that is a stop condition. There are a couple of different kind of, decision points that we have to read. If they are medically unqualified, that is a stop condition. The other two responses we can get is qualified non-accepted intrastate or qualified state variance. For Louisiana, they basically don't care. Either way, they're considered as valid. Other states may have different flows depending on if we get the state variance response back.
Speaker 4 00:47:04
So just again, future proofing, keep in mind, those are the types of things that we may need to kind of implement per state. There's another field that we have is the qualification status. So these are both relevant. If, again, you come back with medically unqualified, rescinded, or avoided, that's a stop condition. I do have a lot in the consulence documents that I had chaired at some point.
Speaker 4 00:47:34
I have acceptance criteria for a lot of these, and in that acceptance criteria, I've noted the, like, verbiage that needs to come back. So if it comes back as rescinded or avoided, that essentially means the doctor you got your certification from is no longer a valid doctor. So you need to go back and get a new medical certification. There is a, what I've communicated to them is going to be a future feature and not an MVP.
Speaker 4 00:48:06
But essentially, if they get that. Beyond the issuance flow, we can also get updates from the NR2 call. So we can be receiving information outside of these flows. And if we receive information that somebody is now has a rescinded MedCert, we actually have to go and tell them. We have to send them a notification and say, if you don't come back in 30 days with a new MedCert, then you will be suspended. They want to eventually auto-kick off those notifications, but I told them that I had not agreed to that in MVP.
Speaker 4 00:48:45
But we will have to add them to a report so somebody can manually. So we'll talk a little bit about that outside of these flows, but know that that's coming. You can also end up coming back with restriction codes. So there is six codes that you get back from ANDA. Each state is going to have a different kind of implementation of these codes and what they mean. So this definitely has to be more on the state plug-in side of things. So I've mapped out kind of how they map to Louisiana.
Speaker 4 00:49:19
So that's all the ones I know now. So if we get one or two, then we need to add the appropriate restrictions. So one being corrective lenses, two being hard peering. So if we get two back from ANVA, it's actually adding Restriction Code 75 for Louisiana. Three or four is waivers and exemptions. So if we get that information back, then we need to add that information to their record.
Speaker 4 00:49:50
And then if we're getting one of those, we're also adding Restriction No. 58 in Louisiana. If we get four or six, they don't care. So again, in here, I've mapped out kind of those decisions and then also in that acceptance criteria in the confidence documents and we'll get these tickets, but I've spelled those out.
Speaker 2 00:50:21
So a little bit of information that we need to take and map. Everything else is very poor common.
Speaker 4 00:50:35
I know that we are almost at time, so those were definitely the ones that I wanted to walk through. The additional ones that are going to get really complex is when we're completing a new issuance. There's a whole level of which pointers come back if they're issuing state IDs or real IDs. There's implications of what AMPA is saying best practices is to create a non-credential history pointer if you're issuing a state ID that's not a real ID.
Speaker 4 00:51:06
So all of that is trying to be mapped here. That probably needs a whole other session to make sure that we know what we're doing. But at the end of the day, from a core perspective, this is kicked off when they've paid and they've signed the application. So the card stuff that we're finalizing and handing over tomorrow, once they hit the final button of that card flow is when we kick off this. It should run all in the background asynchronously, assuming that everything is successful, then.
Speaker 4 00:51:39
nothing else happens. If it is not successful, so there's parts in the flow that if something wasn't successful, we need to basically add it to an error or an accepted report that we need to somehow get into our content calculator. That's going to be how we handle errors within this flow, because we don't want the analyst to have to sit around and wait for all this to happen.
Speaker 2 00:52:03
We want to get them, the person, off and home.
Speaker 4 00:52:11
So that's really where Core interacts with this. The rest of this is just more how we handle different responses and which ones, which.
Speaker 2 00:52:20
if it's adding a pointer or executing a change state of record, will be dependent on a lot of this. So, happy reading for those of you that are going to have to build that.
Speaker 5 00:52:37
I think knowing what they want to see from the searches, just those five columns or whatever, that helps us a lot because that's a lot of what we show to the UI.
Speaker 4 00:52:48
And then there's a whole flow when it comes to both specs, CPS, when it comes to adding violations. We'll probably get a lot more into that in two violations, but I'll get that out here. One of the things I really wanted to make sure that we walked away with is, the issuance flow, really that first step of verification, how we're handling it, make sure that makes sense, everybody kind of know the general direction. 
Speaker 2 00:53:20
so that when we hand off tickets, it makes sense. Everybody feel relatively kind of caught up to speed on that. Makes sense? Questions? Concerns? Are there tickets being created for on the, I guess, on the CICS side. 
Speaker 4 00:53:45
Yeah, so that was the last thing I wanted to talk about today is how you guys want to break up tickets for this.
Speaker 2 00:53:55
So I did... Well, and with that, where does this fit into UAT. 
Speaker 5 00:54:07
I think from phase one, we're not doing any of this stuff. But two, I think we're going to have some of these. Is there any mocks? But we're going to want to show those responses, right. 
Speaker 4 00:54:16
Yeah. Yeah, everything will be mocked in UAT phase one.
Speaker 5 00:54:21
It's really going to be mocked until we go live, really, if you're going to hit me on this real site.
Speaker 4 00:54:24
Yeah. Yeah, it really won't be. We just want base mocks for phase one, really mostly the SSOLV, USPBS, maybe DEC, you know, a way to mock it so it stops them and a way to mock it so it's verified. So I think really what we've already done thus far is working for EYT.
Speaker 5 00:54:50
And mocks, meaning, I know we probably know this, but not just that, it does nothing really but shows you something. It actually goes through EYR mock and makes some kind of decision. You can choose what kind of response you want based on what you said. Yeah.
Speaker 4 00:55:06
So the rest of the work that I did was in the confluence documents that I had sent out previously. So I did walk through each one of these, indicate where it's triggered. So whether it's on initial issue. It wins. um, initiating or completing, um, same with update and, uh, upgrade as well as like some of these that are outside of the prevention management flow. Um, and then each one of these, I have the acceptance criteria written out. Um, so it's going to be as easy as me copying and.
Speaker 4 00:55:40
pasting into the tickets. So what I wanted to understand was like, how the best, how best.
Speaker 2 00:55:47
break these tickets up so that you guys can manage it easily. Is it a ticket per, uh, integration. 
Speaker 4 00:55:54
Is it all in one? Is it one ticket for triggering? Want to know when to trigger it? Want to know how.
Speaker 2 00:56:02
to accept the response? I think for verification on issuance, probably just one ticket for integration, one for SSL OB, one for USPBS. Yeah. Or actually for issuance, like completing the issuance, those will probably be pretty AMBA-heavy. Yeah. We'll have to talk about what you guys will need from CXCS.
Speaker 2 00:56:32
Like, are we just going to publish one credential-issued event, and you guys take it from there? I don't know. We'll have to figure that out. I know we can find through some multiple-round keys.
Speaker 5 00:56:46
The problem is we don't need to find the URI. I think we have to pick one. So, that's an issue currently.
Speaker 2 00:56:56
So, at least you can see CXCS breaking it down by integration, I think. Okay.
Speaker 4 00:57:05
Cool. So, I know the acceptance period broken up of the triggering, of when to trigger it, and then the response handling of, you know, each of these should be the responses we get.
Speaker 2 00:57:19
things that i still need to double check with i should have so assuming.
Speaker 5 00:57:42
someone to make like the tos that go in i guess in the sdk for now yeah we'll define the contracts. okay cool and i guess this is something we're talking about like if we thought of it all about what we're going to do with requests that don't come to the ui but might need attention anyway like the pointer or anything else that maybe we just respond to and nobody knows it really happened yeah it reflected anywhere that i would view and yeah.
Speaker 4 00:58:19
I think that goes back to kind of what we had talked about a while back on one of our whiteboarding sessions. So if we just need, like, a lot of place that isn't pretty, we can go in and just find where we need to just dump all of those things into.
Speaker 5 00:58:35
Maybe like a different page, maybe one specifically for duplicate pointer, potentially. And some of the stuff, like, if you work in security, if we get a CSR and we respond to it, no one really has to look at that ever again. Yeah, maybe it was an error somewhere.
Speaker 4 00:58:51
That's what I'm thinking, or, like, that state calls and says, hey, I didn't get, like, what happened, or, you know, I think it's going to be very.
Speaker 5 00:58:60
Yeah, I guess they'll know where to go and search against, I don't know, what they would pick, like transaction code or...
Speaker 3 00:59:07
Yeah, like whose responsibility is that? Is that LAOV or is that CHAMP to figure out what went wrong with one of those types of transactions? You know, there's an issue.
Speaker 4 00:59:15
I think the first point of triage would be LAOV. And then if they come back and find that it truly was a system problem, not a state data, then that's when they would triage to us.
Speaker 2 00:59:32
But we really want to position their help desk as stop number one on anything. Yeah, they need a lot of logs and they don't want to have access to our database, but stuff that's in there. Yeah, we'll have to figure out how that works. What level of logs they have access to. within the system, even though it's not really a page in the world, but it's something that they can just quickly search.
Speaker 2 01:00:06
Yeah, they'll be able to search us by transactional locator.
Speaker 5 01:00:09
if they happen to know it.
Speaker 2 01:00:10
They can search by the payload, type the name, date range, obviously. Whether they can search on data in the payload. 
Speaker 5 01:00:21
that's tougher because we currently store the whole JSON.
Speaker 4 01:00:23
Yeah.
Speaker 5 01:00:24
We have to break some of that out into columns or something if we want to do that.
Speaker 4 01:00:28
Yeah, if there's one or two things that we have to pull out. 
Speaker 5 01:00:31
it might be like an SSR or something or a DLM.
Speaker 2 01:00:34
Yeah, that probably would be best for them.
Speaker 1 01:00:40
On the escalation side, how much pullback is covered here. 
Speaker 4 01:00:50
The only thing that I cover here is the basic override. just playing a button if you are a help desk user and when you click override that basically allows you to proceed from anything beyond that that's really going to be a whole nother yeah for them to make the decision to override is going to be helpful when we get to the action feature.
Speaker 1 01:01:19
only if you're not if you don't have the help desk role and you need to be able to escalate to help desk that's just a phone call okay okay there won't be a user trigger event, needs to be away from the help desk to get like the system has to know or we have to give them a way to be able to see what they need right or is all they can like walk over to the desk no they would pull it up okay on their side they have to log in as an admin user.
Speaker 2 01:01:45
yeah and then they would just pull up the existing flow.
Speaker 5 01:01:57
There's one or two cases where they actually have to call AMBA, too. The guy just says, like, call AMBA if this happens.
Speaker 3 01:02:05
For UAT, are all the users going to be, we're not having, like, user privileges or, like, different roles and proofs or something like that. 
Speaker 4 01:02:15
For phase one, it'll be a simple analyst role. By phase two, we're looking to introduce a couple more.
Speaker 3 01:02:20
Phase two a week later in March.
Speaker 4 01:02:22
Yeah. Isn't that great? Phase two is going to be a very much rolling phase of, like, throughout March, we may have, you know, a couple of different releases. But I have a very small window in which I have to show UAT.
Speaker 2 01:02:41
Like a rolling phase? Yeah. This is the best way that I can present it to the OMP so that they can still pay us the seven or so million dollars they owe us on UAT. Cool.
Speaker 4 01:02:57
Any other thoughts, questions, concerns around these. 
Speaker 6 01:03:02
Last one, a more general question about champ process. Be topical about this meeting and continuing the conversation. Is this going to be stuff that's so common it'll just be in the IDOS channels? Or do we, I know we're recording the meeting, in part maybe an AI summary or something, but do we have like a group chat while everyone is here to continue that? Is there something on Zoom that we use for that? Or is it just, or do we just, should we make a chat? Or is that not, is that not how we do it. 
Speaker 5 01:03:26
We do have like an IGLS channel for, it's like that discussion mostly. 
Speaker 6 01:03:32
but you can post anything you want in there. So all of this will be competing so much that we don't need to have a specific this and you can continue the chat. That's what I was asking. It's not as important, it wouldn't be as important.
Speaker 2 01:03:43
Cool, great. It's not at all within the overall channel. Perfect.
Speaker 3 01:03:51
Can I get an invite to the IDOS. 
Speaker 2 01:03:53
Yes.
Speaker 4 01:03:54
Thank you. Yeah, I'll add you to it. For anybody who hasn't met Tyler Kahn, why not throw him first into Amba, right. 
Speaker 3 01:04:07
This was a fun one, I got to say.
Speaker 1 01:04:09
My first deeper conversations was with Kyle about Amba. I'm like, I don't know anything. Yeah. I know Amba and specs and BDS.
Speaker 4 01:04:18
So Tyler's our new product architect. So it's a new role that we're kind of exploring, but we'll do a lot of the cross-functional, cross-application pieces, like our fees engine, our other things that may be used by multiple products. So both Touch, IDLS, and VTOS, and potentially my team, the Gov, and anything else.
Speaker 2 01:04:47
So kind of architecting that from a product standpoint.
Speaker 4 01:04:52
i'm sure y'all will get to work with them eventually but yeah absolutely why not get you lost all right we'll uh we'll crank out the questions about meeting uh violation specific ones once we do more violations um running in the same direction well thanks guys.
Speaker 2 01:05:25
how long are you i do have questions.
Speaker 3 01:05:31
i do have questions but they're more
Summary: 
## Meeting Information
> Date: 2026-01-21 16:01:08
> Location: [Insert Location]
> Participants: [Speaker 1] [Speaker 2] [Speaker 4] [Speaker 5] [Speaker 6] [Tyler]
## Meeting Notes
- Topic Title: Purpose and scope of AMBA integrations within the core application
  - Align trigger logic and response handling across issuance, updates, and violations; overview document ~85% complete.
  - Issuance generally triggers applicable services; some checks are conditional (e.g., US BDS on U.S. passport upload; DAC for CDL/CLP issuance).
  - Service types vary: simple verification (SSOLV, USPVS, SAVE) vs. complex (MedCert, PDPS, SPEXS). SAVE acknowledged but not deeply implemented yet.
- Topic Title: Issuance flow triggering, background processing, and error handling
  - Verification begins post-payment and signature, runs asynchronously to avoid blocking analysts.
  - Failures/errors captured in an exception report for later handling; core app focuses on triggers and centralized error reporting.
- Topic Title: Louisiana-specific handling for HAV (Secretary of State requirement)
  - Run HAV in the background and persist results to meet requirements; do not display to users or block workflow.
  - Existing integration will report HAV results without UI exposure.
- Topic Title: Medical Certification (MedCert) rules, data persistence, and stop conditions (CDL only)
  - Persist additional MedCert response data beyond verified/not verified.
  - Hard stop conditions: driver not found, not certified, medically unqualified, rescinded, voided; rescinded/voided require driver to obtain new MedCert.
  - Qualified non-accepted intrastate and qualified state variance are valid in Louisiana; support future per-state handling.
  - NR2 can send rescinded updates post-issuance; prepare manual reporting (MVP) to notify drivers with a 30-day window.
- Topic Title: DAC verification outcomes for commercial drivers
  - Simple branching: proceed if not prohibited; if prohibited, display return-to-duty contact number.
- Topic Title: Post-issuance actions related to SPEXS pointers and change data records
  - Conditional actions after issuance/update based on SPEXS results: add pointer or run change data record.
  - Pointer updates required when ID data changes (name, DOB, SSN, DLN); not required if unchanged.
- Topic Title: Violation-triggered transactions (PDPS and SPEXS)
  - Adding or updating violations can trigger PDPS and SPEXS; details to be clarified.
- Topic Title: Handling unsolicited transactions and optional searches
  - Some transactions (third-party employer searches, federal investigations) may be out of core app scope.
  - Unsolicited requests may require responses; responsibility and usage need clarification.
- Topic Title: SPEXS search strategy (CDO2 vs. CDO1 and verification inquiries)
  - Default to CDO2 (targeted) when SSN or previous DLN + jurisdiction is available; if no results, provide analyst options to run broader CDO1 or acknowledge expected no match for first-time applicants.
  - Prefer user-driven actions over auto-chaining to avoid confusion; verification inquiries can be run directly when prerequisites are met.
- Topic Title: Handling multiple matches in identity verification and PDPS
  - Required data points: name, DOB, sex, DLN, SSN, jurisdiction for children.
  - When multiple matches are found, present a list for user selection or no matches; do not overwrite entered personal data (e.g., preferred name).
  - Retain precise selected pointer data since pointers lack global unique IDs; consider persistence across sessions and SOR tracking for state-to-state requests that bypass the central site.
  - PDPS runs on any issuance; proceed when all matches are eligible, stop/investigate if any non-eligible status appears (maximum 15 responses).
- Topic Title: Eligibility determination, override workflow, and help desk role
  - Eligibility re-evaluated in real time at each step.
  - Help desk has override controls to lift stop conditions; analysts do not. Overrides set a session-level flag/event to unblock analyst flow.
  - For nuanced cases (e.g., mixed PDPS eligibility or DOB discrepancies), may require DHR (state-to-state history) to obtain conviction details and determine stop/proceed.
  - Maintain phone-based escalation; enable shared-session access with real-time updates so help desk can work the same record.
- Topic Title: Pointer cleanup and data retention
  - Discussed nightly jobs to delete or update pointers post-expiry; retention policies (e.g., 10 years) mentioned.
  - Each conviction has its own return-to-duty/expiry date; policy for pointer deletion vs. data retention remains undecided.
- Topic Title: AMBA timeout, partial responses, and state system variability
  - AMBA ~12-second timeout; broad/fuzzy searches may return partial responses if some states do not respond.
  - AMI systems may send multi-part responses; central site assembles them. Some states may send subsets and omit jurisdiction codes, obscuring origin; delayed responses can arrive much later (e.g., 45 minutes).
  - Front-end behavior needs definition for partial results, UX messaging, internal timeouts, and escalation paths to reduce analyst confusion.
- Topic Title: Auto-retry strategy for external verifications
  - Single delayed auto-retry (e.g., 5 seconds) for transient failures (retry on 500), no retry on 400; 401 likely not retried.
  - Consider per-call costs (e.g., SSOLV) when defining retry behavior.
- Topic Title: Storage strategy for verification results
  - Proposal to store only the most recent result per person for certain verifications (e.g., HAP, SSOLV); governance needed to balance audits and troubleshooting with storage efficiency.
- Topic Title: Handling missing first names with SSOLV
  - Support placeholder first names (e.g., FNU, Unknown) for SSOLV checks; store placeholder on the customer record but exclude from credential printing.
  - Stop issuance on SSOLV negative statuses (e.g., person deceased).
- Topic Title: Payload design for admin vs. front-end and logging
  - Payloads can be large; provide dual responses: full JSON for admin/help desk and a restricted subset for front-end. Await OMV requirements for minimum front-end payload.
  - Some requests (e.g., pointers, CSR responses) may not surface in UI; provide dedicated views or a dump area.
  - Implement searchable logs without direct DB access: search by transaction locator, payload, name, date range. Storing full JSON complicates search; may need to extract key fields (e.g., SSR, DLM) into columns. Define help desk log access level and search capabilities.
- Topic Title: Ticketing strategy, UAT mocking plan, and role-based access
  - Create integration-based tickets (SSOLV, USPVS, DAC/AAMVA) with triggers and acceptance criteria from Confluence.
  - UAT Phase 1: mock integrations to exercise stop/verify outcomes and UI decisions; live calls post go-live. Phase 2 introduces more roles and features with rolling releases.
  - Basic overrides: help desk role can click an override button; analysts escalate via phone; some cases may require AAMVA calls.
- Topic Title: Figma designs and schema organization
  - New Figma drafts exist in Speaker 4s area; IDLS schema is large/slowplan to split into separate files to improve performance.
- Topic Title: Coordination channels and new role introduction
  - Continue collaboration in the existing IDOLS/IGLS channel; add Tyler Kahn (new product architect for cross-application components).
## Next Arrangements
- [ ] Finalize the overview mapping triggers and response handling across issuance, updates, and violations.
- [ ] Define and implement background HAV execution and storage for Louisiana without UI exposure or blocking.
- [ ] Specify data persistence schema for MedCert additional data and state-specific stop conditions.
- [ ] Document post-issuance SPEXS actions (add pointer vs. change data record) and criteria for pointer updates.
- [ ] Clarify responsibility and handling for unsolicited requests and optional transactions (e.g., third-party searches).
- [ ] Decide front-end behavior for AMBA partial responses, internal timeout policies, and escalation paths; outline steps for non-responsive states.
- [ ] Define and document auto-retry policy (statuses, delay, retry count) with cost considerations; clarify handling for 401.
- [ ] Implement user-driven controls to initiate broad SPEXS searches (CDO1) when CDO2 yields no results; confirm prerequisites for verification inquiries (SSN or DLN + jurisdiction).
- [ ] Design UI for multiple match selection and no matches declaration; specify data persistence rules for selected pointers and SOR tracking.
- [ ] Establish help desk override controls and permissions within a shared-session flow; design and build the help desk page for September go-live.
- [ ] Specify and implement DHR request flow for nuanced eligibility and conviction detail handling.
- [ ] Decide on pointer cleanup strategy (e.g., nightly job), retention rules, and impact on historical data/reporting.
- [ ] Document analyst self-service steps for SSOLV and similar edge cases to reduce help desk calls.
- [ ] Provide access to the new Figma drafts; refactor IDLS schema into smaller files.
- [ ] Create integration-specific tickets and configure UAT Phase 1 mocks (SSOLV, USPVS, DAC) to produce stop/verify outcomes; plan Phase 2 roles/features.
- [ ] Define help desk log access/search capabilities and determine which payload attributes to extract into searchable columns; set escalation ownership between LAOV and CHAMP.
- [ ] Prepare manual reporting for NR2-driven MedCert rescinded notifications until automation is available.
- [ ] Align with OMV on minimum front-end payload; finalize dual response formats.
- [ ] Add Tyler to the IDOLS/IGLS channel and clarify how CXCS consumes credential-issued events and downstream responsibilities.
## AI Suggestions
> 1. Define UX messaging, internal timeout thresholds, and analyst guidance for AMBA partial responses and multi-part/delayed state responses.
> 2. Clarify responsibility for unsolicited transactions and optional searches, including which requests must be supported and response behaviors.
> 3. Finalize approach for user-driven vs. automated chaining of SPEXS queries to minimize analyst confusion.
> 4. Obtain OMV requirements and standardize restricted front-end payload fields; decide which payload attributes to extract for log search.
> 5. Establish SAVE integration scope, required data elements, and timeline to move beyond acknowledgement.
> 6. Decide whether pointer selection persists across sessions and define SOR tracking rules, especially for state-to-state requests bypassing the central site.
> 7. Define policy, audit logging, authorization scope, and compliance implications for help desk overrides of stop conditions.
> 8. Set rules for pointer cleanup/expiry, retention, and automated jobs, including impact on historical data and reporting.
> 9. Clarify DHR request triggers, required data fields, and how conviction details map to proceed vs. stop decisions.
> 10. Specify DAC return-to-duty messaging and phone number for consistent UI.
> 11. Plan help desk staffing and throughput under the new model to maintain acceptable customer wait times.