Transcript from2026-01-27T16:01:28Z
Speaker 1 00:00:11
thanks all for joining make sure we got.
Speaker 2 00:00:21
she had another meeting i thought it was this one but then i lost her.
Speaker 1 00:00:31
yeah she left before me though.
Speaker 2 00:00:40
once again thanks everyone for joining um if there's any audio issues or you're having trouble hearing about zoom don't be shy feel free to say something and we can troubleshoot, um the real purpose of this meeting is to bring all of us together to talk uh identity provider and off solution for my dmv gov but then i think more generally i'll go to west virginia for the next state that we're going to deploy by dmv as well um so kevin's done some research justin's done some research i've done some research some of us have had conversations with providers some of us haven't um i know brett and kevin were most recently doing maybe some thinking on this.
Speaker 2 00:01:14
or forming an opinion on it it was delegated to us so yes so bring the decision makers into the room let's make a call on this knowing that we've got a pretty tight timeline so um i will be facilitating taking notes i've got some links that i shared out um the one this morning that i shared i think is very helpful and it might be a good way to start the conversation but, um we'll just open the floor to the room not really sure where we want to go yeah i mean i can just say you know from what we've talked about and justin if you want to champe in on this and we.
Speaker 2 00:01:46
we're basically down to two providers that we've settled on uh idd and so here uh yeah oh that was news from monday but it's not a fantasy here for some reason that i didn't dig into it so if it's not easy my favorite meeting of the day.
Speaker 3 00:02:13
yeah why why not identity um i don't know okay just curious well i was reading some of the docs you sent over and one of the questions i had is like so west virginia in particular already has a relationship with, Is it Idemia? Yes, yeah. Idemia.
Speaker 2 00:02:34
Don't they also have a relationship with Idemia already? Idemia is a process in the state. I don't know if it's with DMT. Idemia does the mobile gyrus, since it's for estrogen. So there's a natural integration there. Okay. So the two that are so pure will say Idemia. Sure. Because I think they're the same as so pure. They're only IAL2. They are not AAL2. They don't do OTH. They only do verification. Okay. And let me jump in there, part of what I sent out this morning, at one point I was of the opinion that we needed to be AAL2 compliant, I don't think we need to take it that far, and the distinction is, for the multi-factor authentication, I don't know that we need to use an authenticator app, we could use SMS.
Speaker 2 00:03:17
AAL2 specifies it must be an authenticator app, there isn't anything that I can find federally that requires AAL2. There is a tie to AAL2, so we've got to make sure to check that box, but otherwise I think if we just build a robust MFA with whatever else we should do. Yeah, I think the benefit of using someone like AAL2 is that it's...
Speaker 3 00:03:36
It would also give us the user store.
Speaker 2 00:03:38
Yeah, they do auth, they do... MFA, two-factor, all that stuff. Yeah, they handle all that, and so, you know, but if we do go with somebody like Edemia, then we need to handle all that. Right. I know Justin's a little... There's some options for doing that.
Speaker 4 00:03:56
Yeah, I want to bring up something that Ian mentioned last week that I think warrants more discussion, which is his point, and he's brought this point in other ways too, but his point was that we've got to stop thinking about just West Virginia. We've got to start thinking about how we're going to sell this to state number two, state number three. And his argument was, we don't know if IDD is going to work in state number two or state number three, especially from the auth perspective. And his argument is, let's roll our own auth solution. And he threw out Cognito as an option, because his argument was, we have a better chance of using that in state number two.
Speaker 4 00:04:28
Whereas if we go with something like IDD that has both of these things combined, it's all in one solution, what if we can't use that in state number two? Now we're kind of back to square one, trying to find another auth solution ourselves. We do. I don't know if I have an opinion on that.
Speaker 3 00:04:44
I was going to say, why wouldn't we be able to use IDD? Like, if we're licensing IDD.
Speaker 5 00:04:52
It's the state doing it, and the state, we may go into a state that already uses IdemiaA, and 85% of their state have already, like citizens have already created accounts with IdemiaA, and now we're coming in and say, well, you can't use my application, like my DMV Gov, because we're stuck with Idemia, or vice versa.
Speaker 2 00:05:13
And I agree on the, you know, the product side of it, but I also don't think we need to pick, I think we need to build the product in a way that it's agnostic to who we pick for IAL2 or for the auth, and that for West Virginia, it would be most expedient to use Idemia, because we wouldn't have to do the auth part, you know, it doesn't mean it doesn't replace the feature or whatever. So, I mean, that's the only, that's the benefit to picking Idemia for West Virginia.
Speaker 2 00:05:46
If we. 
Speaker 5 00:05:46
If we do Idemia for both, that's the way they have. But I don't know much about their setup. Can you do the auth of the identity? So, like, as a user, I want to log in to my B&B without verifying my first.
Speaker 2 00:06:06
You would never allow that. 
Speaker 1 00:06:09
Yes, we would. Okay.
Speaker 5 00:06:11
Boy, I'm so out of here. So there's a requirement from a product and business perspective that we want to ensure is that we do not want to add the additional friction, ideally. To providing your identity every single time, because there are aspects of my B&B gov that do not require the ID verification. So for us to say, like, you have to go through all of that, those bells and whistles just to be able to book an appointment, then we're adding additional friction that really just isn't.
Speaker 5 00:06:48
great for our end user. The identity comes with doing a casual sale. Well, great. If I don't ever need to do a casual sale, I shouldn't ever need to verify my identity. I can still see all my vehicles. I can still pull up my initial title. I just can't. So being able to separate it, I think.
Speaker 1 00:07:06
it's a great requirement down the road. My understanding is all these that provide.
Speaker 4 00:07:15
like IDB, they just work with OIDC, which is a requirement, by the way. To Kevin's point, we have to build this assuming that we're going to plug in some of the provider for state number two. As long as these provide OIDC, it should be no problem. And I do know IDB does provide OIDC. 
Speaker 2 00:07:31
which means the off flow is different from the proofing. But would they require you to have.
Speaker 1 00:07:39
proofed to allow you to log in? I would suspect no, but that would be a great question to ask them.
Speaker 4 00:07:47
Yeah, I mean, it looks like an architect and it's two separate things, but it would be a great thing to ask.
Speaker 5 00:07:51
Yeah, I think, I mean, I think from a business requirement standpoint, we need to separate them. If ID or type switch everyone allows us to do that, then great, using one to do both, certainly a viable option. If they are super tied together, then yeah, I mean, and the downside, Right. Right, so if we're not expecting everybody to have to go through and prove, then we can save a lot of costs, so that they get a much cheaper off the buyer, and just.
Speaker 4 00:08:28
I'd be curious to ask them actually if they price it differently with off plus proofing, or if you only do proofing by itself and it's cheaper. I kind of assume that.
Speaker 1 00:08:37
they just priced them together, but that would be another good question to ask them. Yeah, all three providers get a little shy when you start talking pricing because it's.
Speaker 2 00:08:54
the Penn's answer. Yeah. Yeah, we started to do some estimates, and then I ended up pausing that effort. I don't see anything in my notes about it being separate, but I do think we recall them saying that it's very configurable, so we can set it up to support whatever work flow needs in that building out.
Speaker 1 00:09:09
So we do have a contact that we can reach out to just to get that answer.
Speaker 4 00:09:15
I mean, I think it makes a difference, right, for what we're talking about, because if they say, oh, yeah, we're going to do this, we're going to do this, we're going to do that, we can just give you the proofing sign and cut your cost in half, then it would be.
Speaker 1 00:09:24
a strong argument for having said, like, okay, maybe we'll roll around a health solution, to save a lot of money. Yeah.
Speaker 2 00:09:32
Well, knowing that part that I didn't know, I think that takes me towards rolling around a health solution. Because if we're holding our own off solution. 
Speaker 4 00:09:45
then we would have the same off solution for every state. Not necessarily.
Speaker 2 00:09:51
We would like to. We would prefer to. But I guess the state had a preference. Right. If they already had something outside of leverage, yeah. But to Justin's point, as long as it's a legacy, it doesn't really matter.
Speaker 4 00:10:07
Yeah, I think that was the value. I think that was the value of separating off from proofing. So you say, we have your off solution. We have it. It's ready to go here. Plug it in. It works. And then we'll plug in the way we're proofing the solution path, maybe to use that data here or something in some other state. Keeping those separate, I think, makes it easier from a product standpoint. From an implementation standpoint. 
Speaker 1 00:10:27
it's easier just to keep them together. But that's why it's worth talking about. I have some concerns about rolling it ourselves.
Speaker 4 00:10:36
I mean, we've talked about the problems with KeyClick. I don't think anybody here really wants to move forward with a full KeyClick implementation. I've been prototyping Cognito. I think I mentioned last week I have some examples I can show you guys of what Cognito looks like. You can custom-brand it. You can do all the stuff you want to do. But it's not... The key thing I want to say is that it's not out-of-the-box friendly the way that ITMe would be. I think Cognito, I'm pretty sure, when you sign up for an account, you click a couple boxes, tell them what you want,
Speaker 4 00:11:07
and everything just kind of works. Oh, you want SMS? Click a box, you get SMS. And you want a custom template? Here, just put your HTML in your video. Cognito requires a lot more tweaking and fine-tuning. It's a lot more work. So even if it is cheaper from a contract perspective. 
Speaker 1 00:11:24
it will require a lot more effort for engineering to set up something like Cognito. We'd be the first one to have champions in Cognito. Great, that's right. I remember seeing uh requirements or comments around like social longings.
Speaker 3 00:11:52
Not a requirement, it's a nice to have. Justin, that's probably an example where maybe a little bit more of a lift in Cognito to get or they give you some more out of the box for you know blogging with Google, audio, Microsoft, that type of thing.
Speaker 4 00:12:09
Yeah, that's a good point. Cognito does support those things but I'm pretty sure you have to set up your client variations.
Speaker 3 00:12:15
It's been a long time since I looked at Cognito.
Speaker 4 00:12:19
Yeah, yeah I think you have to set them up one by one manually. Likely, IVB is, again, probably, I don't know, I've never seen the product, but I'll imagine, given the cost that it is, it's probably a little bit more seamless out of the box. So, yeah, I keep going back to the point of, like, if we want the best possible chance of success on the timeline that we have, picking something that's fully out of the box, like IVB, seems like the obvious choice.
Speaker 1 00:12:45
But if we want something that will give us a little bit more long-term flexibility, and we can roll around a solution, but it's really actually more of a product-branding thing than it is anything else, we can say, oh, yeah, we have a roll-around solution. We're not relying on anybody else. But that's kind of a decision for people smarter than me. You're pretty smart, Justin. I don't know. I'll sort of start with something. Justin, do you remember from the conversation we had with ID.me if their login is ID.me-branded or we could white-label that?
Speaker 1 00:13:17
Yeah. Do you want to take a look at that? Can you control the entire UI, or is there a UI, it's just our logo? Is there a UI? You can change all the elements. I'm pretty sure you can change the colors, change the branding sections. I'm pretty sure you can change everything, but it is there.
Speaker 3 00:13:40
I don't know if you can move the buttons around necessarily.
Speaker 5 00:13:43
Right. But it is a relatively intuitive, detailed configuration that is not just, swap the logo out. I assume with how much you're paying again, you can do it with what happens when you assume. Because that is another requirement, is that we can control as much seats and interface as possible.
Speaker 2 00:14:07
From my non-tech team perspective, I mean, IDD seems to have the best acquisition support team available. 
Speaker 1 00:14:12
but I'm not a tech factor as well, so we are paying a premium, but that support is there.
Speaker 2 00:14:18
I know at one point we got access to, or at least a couple of people got access to the IDB sandbox from the sandbox department. I don't know if that was purely API related or if it had anything like UI sandbox. I don't even know if that's still active right now.
Speaker 1 00:14:34
That might have been me poking around before we had the call with them. I think they did send out some sort of a demo. I'm trying to think about it. It might be confusing.
Speaker 3 00:14:50
If we just had to switch in the future, how complex would it be to switch over providers? Like if we started off with IDB and then switched over. Probably less on the verification side and more on the user mention side, because you'd have to figure out what that migration story is. And it might need to be like, oh, and now everybody, when they log back in, they have to reset their passwords or something like that. Yeah, I would put that in a try-to-avoid category list on the user store.
Speaker 3 00:15:21
I think, unless, do you disagree? No, yeah. I've never implemented the very patient side, but I've had to transition off the button before, and I don't want to do it.
Speaker 1 00:15:37
Why not. 
Speaker 4 00:15:40
The, yeah, the auth side is going to be very standard with OIDC. We'll get an ID token. We'll get the fields that we ask for. So, for a technical side, swapping out one auth production to another one is actually very easy, besides the user engine and factors that you brought up. It's a whole different thing. The proofing side is where it actually gets a little crazy, because each of these has a different mechanism for how they do proofing, like callback URLs, completely different data formats. Chris and I have been talking about how we will have to implement some plug-in logic so that we can extract that.
Speaker 4 00:16:13
Right, assuming that we'll have to insert a different proofing provider, how do we translate that to accommodate intercourse service? Right, we don't even really know what that looks like because you kind of have.
Speaker 1 00:16:23
to have like two plus providers and compare them side by side to see what they give you. But that's a challenge we'll have to tackle pretty early on. How far out, so there was some conversation about like cross-state access eventually, how far out is that, would you estimate, guesstimate? Not as far as you think.
Speaker 1 00:16:58
Right, so whether it's Cognito or, you know, I don't know. 
Speaker 3 00:17:01
Ping Identity or Not Zero or whatever, right, like you can imagine one single user pool with claims to the states, or.
Speaker 1 00:17:12
Are we rolling, are we rolling an appointment, like, kind of, you know, per, you know, and the users are per? I would think we'd have to do per just because of the states, you know, just because I'm running into them for their, you know, data. I'm not wanting that to be intermingled, but maybe I'm wrong. Yeah, I feel like that would give us more flexibility if the state has their own solution, too, they want to manage or they want us to use.
Speaker 1 00:17:44
That's per state? I would think, you know, that would be more flexible.
Speaker 4 00:17:48
I assume we would do per state, but I hadn't thought about the idea of using something like Cognito, a single Cognito pool for all states, because it supports SAML and supports some, it supports some social logins, I guess you could federate with whatever providers they have. We don't normally do that, and it brings up a bigger question about what was mentioned before about a global solution for stuff like this. I don't think we've talked about it with this before. I've always viewed this as a state portal.
Speaker 3 00:18:23
I think it was under the context of, like, if I'm, if I have a car in two states, can I use, like, is my, if you have my single pane of glass to be able to access all of my vehicles that are registered, you know, that are registered with me.
Speaker 5 00:18:39
Yeah, I think we talked about, like, your one view, like, you kind of have to interact with it at a state level. but there may be a uh abstraction layer that i can log in once and be like i don't have to log in multiple times to each state there's kind of that whole my chart concept of which i know even my chart does it differently there's some that you log in once you get all of them there's others.
Speaker 5 00:19:09
that have separate logins right ideal world i can i have like essentially a splash page where i can select which state i want to go to but then be able to toggle in between my two states without having to log out and log back in but i don't i don't think we ever i've never viewed it as i can see like one page of all of my no yeah it's just it is a login piece right.
Speaker 3 00:19:39
because if yeah if that user record is national weather service.
Speaker 1 00:19:50
is it really supposed to be that bad tonight that's your phone oh no.
Speaker 3 00:20:00
yeah it's who if we have if you had a single user store where there was no state-specific, data like all that's there is the user information and like whatever claims they have right and what would be you know we need a record of that user in the state and that's sort of where you know the state specific is one model another model you know there's like homegrown discovery, would be the word which is like i ask like after i log in i say hey here's who i am what do i have.
Speaker 3 00:20:33
access to and somebody's like oh you got these four states you know what i mean yeah which is my home um so there's ways to solve i guess it's more like if it whether it's cognito or uh. We'll want to just game it out, even if we do none of the work, but just game it out and make sure we at least know what our options are.
Speaker 5 00:20:57
Yeah, you know, if that's the thing that we want to support, we want to know that we can or can't. I certainly think we don't want to.
Speaker 4 00:21:10
I think the big question there would be from a sales perspective, are we saying, because I think to do what you're saying is we have to tell the states, we will not use your login provider. You have to use our login provider.
Speaker 3 00:21:28
Yeah, it gets more interesting. Like, you could still use their login provider. That would be part of that, like, home run discovery. It's like, hey, I'm Brett. How do I log in? And the answer could be, oh, you log into the West Virginia. But you're right. That makes it, if I have assets across multiple states, which is the state that owns.
Speaker 5 00:21:50
Yeah, who I am. It says who I am. And I honestly don't think that the states will have as much, care as much about using down off. I think it's more on the proof, mostly because that's a lot more involved, right. 
Speaker 3 00:22:10
So you had a note in the IDENIA, one of the documents I read, if we choose IDENIA, it would be licensed to West Virginia. Like we would not be... We would not have a relationship with IDME for in that case, but in other states we could, or we would always, it would always follow that model.
Speaker 2 00:22:31
Well, and if they were using somebody, though, who did like IDME already, that might be important because they've already got the users, like, you know, they get verified and they populate.
Speaker 3 00:22:43
Yeah. So they may want to use that. We would just be onboarded as an application that can use IDME. Yeah.
Speaker 5 00:22:49
I mean, if you think about in Ohio, right, I'm sure we all use OHID, and if something then comes on and says, like, you now have to go through all this stuff completely separately, even though it's related to the BMP, you're like, wait, what? No, I don't want to do that. So, like, we're essentially in states that have a little bit more mature. I think West Virginia isn't super mature in that their mobile ID hasn't really taken off much, and other services are kind of similar.
Speaker 5 00:23:23
But in states that are a little bit more mature, we don't want to kind of create that friction, on their citizen side.
Speaker 2 00:23:30
And I don't know if this is even something we should worry about, but I know with some of my discussions with Bo and talking about it, like we're going to have an, well, whatever we're calling it now, entity ID, whatever, in GLR for each customer that we could, like the first login could be to our Cognito against GLR, and then that, then we use that to then go out to the states, you know, say, okay, in GLR, we store what states they have, like.
Speaker 2 00:24:01
a thousand or whatever.
Speaker 1 00:24:02
Yeah. Mm-hmm. Yeah. But that's, you know, GLR's not even ready yet, so. Yeah. Time to get ready. Go ahead. Okay. It's like trying to fix something in my bathroom. Before I do that, I need to replace this.
Speaker 2 00:24:31
Do we all agree on separate off an identity verification provider? Sounds like yes. To me, though, the only outstanding question is the timeline for West Virginia. Yeah. It's the only reason we would want to do, I think. 
Speaker 1 00:24:54
a combined one is because we're afraid we're not going to make the data.
Speaker 5 00:24:58
Yeah, I think the decision is they have to be separatable. so if we go to IBE for example we have to be able to implement just an off in the next day or like, we have to be able to have someone log in without going through the first like if they tie that heavily together then that's out like I think that is the requirement decision we have made, um but if one provider allows us to separate them I don't see why not now because if they're.
Speaker 5 00:25:40
separated that state you know it'll be a bit easier to we can't go to a single place.
Speaker 2 00:26:04
Other thoughts on that front? Otherwise, it sounds like we need to reach back out to IDN to clarify if they are a separable solution. Maybe get some more information on their off separately from their verification.
Speaker 5 00:26:17
And if they cost it separately. If we have to pay the premium just for us, when we think maybe making up numbers, so don't hold me to this, but like, I would imagine my gut tells me only like 30% of people are going to actually go through the proofing. Because how many of us go through casual sales regularly? So if we're paying the premium for that 70% that aren't, then I think that's a concern.
Speaker 4 00:26:51
Are you saying you don't have to go through the proofing to be able to see like your registration? Right. And it's that part. 
Speaker 5 00:26:56
Yep. Yeah, the only thing you have to do your proofing for is any transactions. So doing a casual sale or doing a – give me the word when you do the reassignment.
Speaker 2 00:27:13
A trade-in. 
Speaker 5 00:27:15
Yeah, when you sign consent. Digital consent. Electronic without a disclosure.
Speaker 2 00:27:22
Certain transactions you will have to be verified for, Justin, to proceed. It's really anything where you're signing without a disclosure. You're doing so electronically. That's when IL-2 verification comes in. Everything else, like reviewing your registration, requesting that you look at plate, that's all available online without identity verification tonight. It's funny because it's not in Ohio. Right. Ohio is, yeah, different. So another factor is other states might have different requirements there. Yeah. It needs to be verified.
Speaker 5 00:27:49
It'll be based on the transaction. But view only, like there's no proofing needed for that.
Speaker 4 00:27:58
Are we going to require them to enter some info, like give us your driver's license number or something? Or are we just going to use a phone number to link them. 
Speaker 1 00:28:07
VIN and DL, or ID number, that's associated with the title. That's the current thing. So we just trust that it's their ID, I guess. 
Speaker 2 00:28:20
Yeah, I would argue that it's actually more secure than what they do today. Right now, it's like the last four of your plate number. I don't even know that VIN is a factor. The county you pay taxes in. So it's very easily spoofable today. So if you want to go on and reduce somebody's registration in West Virginia for them, I guess you could. I would question the motivation there. Because if you're feeling charitable, you can. Is this like anybody can pay everybody's property tax? Exactly, yes. If you feel so inclined. Please, take mine.
Speaker 5 00:28:49
But there'll be future features within myDNB.gov, like being able to schedule an appointment online. We don't want to have to. have them go through all that proofing to just be able to schedule an appointment.
Speaker 1 00:29:04
I'm sorry, that answers the question in that we're not even gonna require them.
Speaker 4 00:29:08
to use a specific form of sign-up. We could, I mean, we haven't really nailed this down, but like SMS versus email, for example, it really wouldn't matter because it would still require separate data.
Speaker 5 00:29:21
Yeah, I mean, we still wanna be able to collect and tie their email and phone number eventually. 
Speaker 1 00:29:26
but as far as like what they use as their login.
Speaker 3 00:29:34
In that situation where you haven't verified yet, but you have an account, and, you know, whatever, you're in the office, and you show up to the desk, is there, like, a back-office way to, like, stay verified without having to, like, kick off the process. 
Speaker 2 00:29:54
Yeah, that's part of the D&D admin feature. So, like, they would present their ID, and the clerk could verify that against their identity and click. So, like, you're verified. Yeah.
Speaker 5 00:30:01
Okay.
Speaker 2 00:30:02
Yeah, what we're offering is just the remote verification, essentially. Yeah.
Speaker 5 00:30:06
So, that's another reason to separate, like, ensure that they're separate. Right.
Speaker 3 00:30:10
Again, can be same provider, but, yeah, there is a state where you are, you have an account, but you're not verified yet.
Speaker 1 00:30:19
Yeah.
Speaker 3 00:30:20
And that's a valid state, and there is functionality. Yeah.
Speaker 1 00:30:28
That'll be if he tells you, right? Like, if he tells you why for that, Vince? Yeah. Okay. We need to talk about how we tie this stuff together. We can talk about this later.
Speaker 4 00:30:39
But Chris and I were talking about putting this user information in my D&D code database. And that's fine. But that means VTOS will have to call that database to get a list of users and be able to say which ones are approved. It doesn't have any function of VTOS, right? Arguably, we should store this data in VTOS or later on UADM.
Speaker 1 00:31:01
But we're in a little bit of a tight spot because we don't have UADM for us for J. So we're kind of figuring out what to do. Kevin, I'm excited to hear what you have to say.
Speaker 3 00:31:14
Well, the scary idea, maybe it's not scary. I'll let you open it, Josh. Similar to what we were talking about before, if you deploy UADM to West Virginia only for these customer records as sort of a. stepping stone towards part of the stepping stone towards migrating to VTOS Gen 2 like, would that buy us any.
Speaker 3 00:31:44
it buys us a hell of a lot of dependencies but would it buy us anything not having to also support all that it's like how standalone does myDMVGov itself has to be versus looking at it as an app that talks through CICS.
Speaker 1 00:31:59
like the clerk portal yeah it does eventually need to be a standalone as it can be, standalone in like we would only deploy myDMVGov.
Speaker 3 00:32:13
without VTOS, without IDLS without.
Speaker 2 00:32:16
I think we would always deploy VTOS.
Speaker 5 00:32:20
basically yeah basically VTOS comes with everything regardless. But, like, a light version of it. Yeah.
Speaker 3 00:32:29
You don't need to be able to deploy without VTOS or with some other system that is...
Speaker 5 00:32:35
Right. Like, we don't need to be the system of record. We don't need to be...
Speaker 3 00:32:42
And that might...
Speaker 2 00:32:43
Using VTOS Gen 2 to front-end West Virginia.
Speaker 3 00:32:46
To front-end West Virginia. Putting all the customer... Assuming, like, maybe... Let's pretend for a second this wasn't for West Virginia first, that it was for Louisiana. Would we be using UADM and, like, the customer record would also have... Would be extended with this other metadata, right? Like, to some degree? Yeah. Is that right? Okay. There's not, like, a separate...
Speaker 1 00:33:13
There should be a separate...
Speaker 3 00:33:15
A separate... Yeah. Yeah, in which case, I don't know, that might... Maybe it's a thing we could consider, so you would not have to recreate all that, you know, like admin function, you know, the user management and whatever sort of inputs you have, because we will need it for UIDM anyways.
Speaker 5 00:33:34
Yeah, we'll think it's so crazy or scary. It's a little scary, but it makes sense. The alternative is also to migrate that afterwards.
Speaker 4 00:33:47
Yeah, we were talking about doing that for the locations, the D&D location data.
Speaker 3 00:33:51
Yep, yep. But that, right, exactly. Like, if we could solve, because we have that problem to solve in both worlds, and if we just solve it in a new world and let the new world be the gateway to the old world as we continue, you know.
Speaker 1 00:34:05
Otherwise, we're just building tech debt we're going to have to deal with later. Justin, you get to tell Jeremiah about this.
Speaker 4 00:34:27
What we should be doing is building my DD Cup for Louisiana, because that is the end state. It's going to have the end state of all the products that we're building now. And then we look back and say, how can we retrofit this in the smartest way for West Virginia with the least amount of friction. 
Speaker 5 00:34:45
I agree. Now you're saying just pretend that we're building it for Louisiana instead of West Virginia.
Speaker 4 00:34:54
Well, we could both, I mean, consider, and I'm not even saying Louisiana, I don't really care about Louisiana, but like they are, they are. going to get all the new stuff Louisiana is. They have IDLF, they're going to get, get you touched into, they're going to get whatever new version of DMA we're going to be building eventually. So if we build it for them, we should be in the correct in-state.
Speaker 3 00:35:16
Yeah. Or if we're pretending that we're building it for them, we should be in the correct in-state. And it's just a matter of like bridging those worlds in the short term. And we have to assume.
Speaker 5 00:35:28
that we're going to win the West Virginia credentialing contract, which is going to force.
Speaker 1 00:35:33
this whole migration a lot faster. So. We have to assume or we have to hope. 
Speaker 3 00:35:42
Play like you've already won. Yeah. Play win, not play lose.
Speaker 4 00:35:49
I didn't know if you were being sarcastic or not. I heard that we were going to get it. So I did. 
Speaker 1 00:35:53
but have you been sarcastic or serious or what? A little bit of both. It's not one yet, but it would be. I don't know. We have to act like we're getting it, because we have to. Play the line. All right, Chris, what are your thoughts on building for UAVMF. 
Speaker 2 00:36:22
I know you're a big fan of GLR in New York.
Speaker 1 00:36:25
I mean, Justin and I, we're already talking about potentially using that for other things. Okay. I think the response was, we'll see. But if we're saying we want to do that, then I'm up for it. I mean, wouldn't it require, Kevin, would it require to play VTAS Gen 2. 
Speaker 2 00:36:43
Yeah, that's the idea that we basically like we do in, you know, New Jersey or wherever, where VTAS Gen 2 is not the system of record VTAS Gen 1 is, but we talk to VTAS Gen 2. So will we create an integration service? That's the basic question. Yes. That's the point. It's crazy. I know, but I think it's a good way to transition. It's going to be a good practice for the next day when we're running off the system of records.
Speaker 1 00:37:15
Yeah, I mean, if we're going to, if we're saying we're going to use UADM, you touched it too, then we probably want to do it in a way that's going to need it to make the migration easier.
Speaker 4 00:37:27
or at least start it down that path. So if it takes some sort of link between the old and the new. 
Speaker 1 00:37:34
then that's what we'll have to do, even if it probably going to just add to the amount of work that needs to be done now. But I think it gets us into a position.
Speaker 2 00:37:45
that makes transitioning over to VTASJ too much easier. Pay this off now and it's going to pay off in the long run.
Speaker 4 00:37:55
That's something that VTAS team would do.
Speaker 3 00:38:01
Working on it, jeez. Shots fired. Well, yeah, I think that, so that would be, so, so tactically their next steps would be to figure out where does, what, what is needed for UAM for this that's not already accounted for. Like ideally there's a world where it just exists already and we can just use it. And yes, we have to figure out the, how do we let VTOS Gen 2 treat VTOS Gen 1 as a system.
Speaker 3 00:38:34
of record. Like that is a thing that we'll, that we'll need to figure out for, I mean, like it could be a pattern both for West Virginia and Kentucky potentially in terms of how do we not. Yeah, to give us a way to iterate towards cutover and not need huge investment, huge lift.
Speaker 2 00:38:58
We need Keon back, so we did that for Rhode Island, so he's the one who understands.
Speaker 1 00:39:06
I'm using the test gen 2 as a pass-through. I also have to talk about DTMS and DMR.
Speaker 4 00:39:18
This is going to be a little bit of a separate conversation, but it relates to digital titles. What does DTMS look like for a state like Louisiana? We talked about rewriting that so that it's now part of the ADM. I think that's probably the smart move, but maybe that would be another reason to roll out the ADM so we could rewrite DTMS to use that in the process or something.
Speaker 3 00:39:55
Well, yeah. Okay. So we have some questions for IDME. There was like one other vendor that I stumbled on. I don't know if anybody has talked to that. It's called OneKosmos. It's another FedRAMP, IAL, AAL acronym NIST. OneKosmos. OneKosmos? Kosmos with a K? K-O-S. 
Speaker 4 00:40:26
Yeah, I saw it on the list as providing both services, but I didn't look into it too much.
Speaker 3 00:40:33
I think this is more, at least I was reading their dev docs, it looks a bit more maybe not separable at glance.
Speaker 2 00:40:45
was that the one that was kind of like airport systems there was one of them i looked at that like yeah they passed both things but their business is really like geared for it to clear it wasn't clear though it was somebody else that was or is they had a very like it seemed like a.
Speaker 1 00:41:03
real niche niche you know market they were serving so some follow-ups already made um.
Speaker 3 00:41:17
um i mean like justin i don't know how how deep are you into kagita would it be worth, if what we end up with is two separate vendors would it be worth i don't know i guess i don't know what other requirements we would have on just the off side you know like an all zero, or even octa like offers pretty similarly like painless, set up and whatnot, where they come and customize the logging screen and all that stuff.
Speaker 3 00:41:50
It's like, I don't know how valuable it would be to consider those. For me, I think it's dependent on how much of a lift Cognito is, just because I don't know it. But I do know like Auth0, we could get set up very quickly if we wanted to.
Speaker 4 00:42:08
Yeah, I think any of those solutions would be easier to implement than Cognito. Octa would be, I've heard Octa mentioned multiple times, that would be definitely worth looking at.
Speaker 3 00:42:20
Octa bought Auth0, so even though Auth0 is still separate, they're owned by Octa, which is not annoying at Auth.
Speaker 4 00:42:27
Yeah, Octa and Auth0 are now like the IP of Auth solutions. You can't go wrong with them. The pricing would be a question. I looked at a couple of others and the pricing was... Kind of the same. ActuAuthy, I want to say, I looked at the pricing for Octa, and it was very, very high. Yeah. But maybe they have a different package. Yeah, as you say, isn't Cognito pretty reasonable? Yeah, Cognito is Auth but free. They charge you monthly users, monthly active users, not just users. So if you don't log in, we don't get charged for it,
Speaker 4 00:42:58
which is going to be huge for this purpose because we're going to get a lot of people that are going to log in once a year. That's going to be great. And then per user, I mean, it's like a thousand-billion penny. Per user, per month or something, it's ridiculous and cheap.
Speaker 5 00:43:12
So it's probably a cost analysis that you have to do. Yes, the more expensive ones are more out of the box. But, you know, what is the lift to do something with Cognito? Right. Is it worth putting in the extra time and effort to do something that's a bit more cost-effective? Or if it's not... because we have timelines then it's not but I think you need to be able to do that cost analysis.
Speaker 4 00:43:41
yeah somebody could if somebody could help track down just basic pricing for something like that to, don't be a huge help if we know it's gonna be like you know a dollar per user or something then you know obviously it's Auth the table um but if it's cheap then we should absolutely consider.
Speaker 3 00:43:57
it like Auth zero I know because they because it's still cheap for that one yeah it's still cheaper yeah so is their support so I guess maybe right well you get what you pay for but Auth zero has a similar like monthly active user um pricing uh and the other thing I'd have to look into it again the other thing that was interesting with us Auth zero was like they support hybrid hybrid uh user, populations I guess is how you describe it so for example uh if you wanted the clerks to use my DMV.
Speaker 3 00:44:34
with the same login they use for you know whatever for the portal like Auth0 can facilitate that type of a thing um where it's like a combined user identity with different ways to log in but.
Speaker 1 00:44:50
I don't know that that's I don't think we've got enough people to yeah I wouldn't advocate.
Speaker 3 00:44:59
strongly for that I guess I just optionality wise yeah we've got some interesting like tenancy models that they support the possibility of building an in-house solution is completely.
Speaker 5 00:45:08
Auth the table from scratch yes yes okay yes yeah ain't nobody got time for that not when we're.
Speaker 3 00:45:18
watching september or august yeah sorry there's so much to implement yeah it would be don't don't I'll say it louder in the back. build enough identity by by commodities this is a commodity i know he did original uh research on.
Speaker 5 00:45:42
uh i think he did research from build at octa as well as so he might have already before anybody whoever if you're gonna do the research or whoever uh start there see if he's already done it so you.
Speaker 4 00:45:57
don't waste your time i would put um here's a here's another pro for octa it's not related to any cloud provider that we're using so AWS is is what has Cognito so if we went into some state, and they're like we don't use any of the SP1 yes he's azure or gcp that would cause problems for us using Cognito we have to potentiAuthy switch.
Speaker 1 00:46:19
to a different provider. we're confident we have to go on-premise first aid yeah now we're Auth screwed. Thanks, but no thanks. Well, that's a good show.
Speaker 2 00:46:42
Cool. So we've got some follow-ups for ID.me. We've got some cost analysis research we want to do on some other solutions. What else? And what's going to get us to a decision. 
Speaker 5 00:46:57
Well, the ID.me, if it's not separable, then that's out. If it is, then it's still on the table. And then it's the cost analysis.
Speaker 3 00:47:07
Cost and time.
Speaker 5 00:47:08
Yeah, the cost analysis would have to be from. Yeah, analysis on the time.
Speaker 3 00:47:15
From a product perspective, are there any product requirements that still need to be? decided like things that we definitely need to have in the solutions um i had a rough draft.
Speaker 2 00:47:25
going i think some things like abby saying they must be separable is really good i think some other things that justin and kevin have mentioned um so maybe just revisiting those and refreshing.
Speaker 3 00:47:33
them based on some of the things we talked about okay okay good i mean whatever helps.
Speaker 2 00:47:38
yeah i think those two um the data from idb and then the cost time analysis is probably.
Speaker 3 00:47:45
what we need and then we can okay so another question tactically let's let's first say argument let's say octa is super cheap and great we're going to use it and idemia for west virginia do we have to use their idemia or would we bring our own.
Speaker 2 00:48:08
So when we talked to them, we were under the impression we wanted it really quickly, which is funny in retrospect, but we wanted to have a contract in place by the end of the year, and they floated that as an option, that we could use their existing MDL contract potentially. I don't think that we have to go that route, but I think that West Virginia would be the contracting party with whoever we pick. That's my understanding. It wouldn't be CHAMP contracting with Idemia or Idemia, it would be West Virginia, at least for the identity verification piece.
Speaker 2 00:48:39
So there is some groundwork we need to do there in terms of getting their procurement office to put a contract together or whatnot.
Speaker 3 00:48:48
If we don't use it, do we still have to contract with them. 
Speaker 5 00:48:53
Or is it only if we're using their or if we're putting the cost on them? Okay, okay, okay. If we're going to eat the entire cost of all of it, then there's no need.
Speaker 1 00:49:12
But I think what we're trying to do is have the state cover some of that. Got it. Okay.
Speaker 2 00:49:23
All right, well, Anna and I will put our heads together on those couple of deliverables. Do you want to have a sync or dispute once those are ready, or do we prefer async in review and then potentially bring this group back together if needed? If we can get the cost from you guys, and I don't know, Justin, if you can come up with any kind of estimate on time, like if we were going to do Cognito. And then, you know, I think we can send that out. Yeah, we can send that out to everybody.
Speaker 2 00:49:53
Everybody should be able to look at it, and then it's just, you know, we'll get it. All right. So then maybe let me work on a Confluence page where we can centralize things and then we can divide and conquer. I'll get Idemia, Britt's going to do Okta, Justin, if you can speak to Cognito, piece together all the solutions we've talked about and figure out a path forward from there. Use that as a source of truth.
Speaker 3 00:50:17
Yeah, I'll see. I'll get out zero because I think I can ask them the same questions when I'm on the same account team. This one I've never used as a ping, but I know that everywhere Okta is ping, ping identity also is.
Speaker 2 00:50:32
It came up on my list too.
Speaker 3 00:50:33
I don't know if it'd be worth sending it.
Speaker 2 00:50:37
Is that the one that's not IAO2? There's one that people get both sent to. I'm like, yeah, that's, I mean, that's what they do, but they're not, they weren't on the certified list.
Speaker 1 00:50:51
Okay. Good question.
Speaker 2 00:50:58
to that certification page. Oh, the FedRAMP one? Well, it's Katara. Yeah, Katara.
Speaker 1 00:51:06
They're the certifying. Trust stats list. Okay, one thousand plus.
Speaker 2 00:51:19
I'm finding they are not currently listed with NIST or all those approvals.
Speaker 3 00:51:24
I found some doc that's like, here's how to configure it so that you are MISSED.
Speaker 4 00:51:36
Yeah, that's basically how a company works. We would have to configure it ourselves that it's IDLT compliant. Whatever that means for us. If we want to be able to certify it, we have to do all that ourselves. Whereas I think something about Okta Zero, these services, a lot of these,
Speaker 1 00:51:51
you just flip a switch and it's guaranteed. That's my guess. Okay. All right. One step closer to a decision. Yeah. Maybe steps. Anything else before we adjourn? This is a good conversation. All right.
Summary: 
### [Meeting Information]
> [Date:] 2026-01-27 16:01:28
> [Location:] [Insert Location]
> [Participants:] [Kelly McCourt] [Speaker 1] [Speaker 2] [Speaker 3] [Speaker 4]
### [Meeting Notes]
**Purpose and Immediate Context**
*   The meeting was convened to select an identity provider (IdP) and authentication solution for "my dmv gov," with an immediate focus on the upcoming deployment for West Virginia.
*   The timeline for this decision is tight, driven by the West Virginia deployment schedule.
*   The team agreed to build for the correct "end state" architecture (using VTOS Gen 2) rather than a temporary solution for West Virginia, effectively acting as if the contract is already won to minimize future technical debt.
*   VTOS Gen 2 is intended to act as a pass-through integration layer to communicate with the legacy system (VTOS Gen 1).
**Architectural Requirements: Separation of Services**
*   **Critical Requirement:** The team agreed that Authentication (logging in) and Identity Proofing (verifying identity) must be technically separable.
*   **User Experience:** Minimizing friction is paramount. Users should not be forced to verify their identity (proof) just to view basic info like registrations or book appointments. Identity proofing should only be triggered for high-security transactions (e.g., casual sales, digital consent).
*   **Multi-State Scalability:** Separation ensures flexibility for future states (like Ohio) that may mandate using their own legacy login systems (e.g., OHID).
*   **Compliance:** The team discussed compliance needs, specifically AAL2 (Authenticator Assurance Level 2) vs. IAL2 (Identity Assurance Level 2). Current assessments suggest full AAL2 (authenticator apps) may not be strictly necessary if SMS-based MFA suffices, but this requires federal verification.
**Vendor Selection and Comparison**
*   **Strategy:** Building a solution from scratch is off the table. The team is comparing vendors based on a cost-vs-effort analysis.
*   **ID.me:** Considered a strong contender for the West Virginia timeline due to its "out-of-the-box" nature handling MFA and compliance. However, critical questions remain regarding whether its Authentication and Proofing services can be unbundled technically and financially.
*   **AWS Cognito:** Proposed as a low-cost ("penny per user") alternative that avoids vendor lock-in but requires significant custom engineering ("high lift") for branding and configuration.
*   **Okta / Auth0:** Seen as turnkey solutions with hybrid user support and easier implementation than Cognito, but significantly more expensive.
*   **Idemia:** Noted for an existing relationship with West Virginia (mobile driver's licenses), offering a natural integration point, though potentially focused more on verification (IAL2) than authentication/user stores.
*   **Other Options:** Ping Identity and OneKosmos were mentioned but require checks for FedRAMP/NIST certification.
**Cost Efficiency Analysis**
*   **Bundling Concerns:** The team is concerned about the financial inefficiency of paying a premium for a bundled solution (Auth + Proofing) for all users.
*   **Usage Estimates:** It is estimated that only ~30% of users will need high-level identity proofing, while 70% will only need basic authentication.
*   **Decision Framework:** The final decision hinges on comparing the high implementation effort of cheaper solutions (Cognito) against the high licensing costs of turnkey solutions (Okta/ID.me), and confirming if "out-of-the-box" vendors allow unbundling.
### [Next Arrangements]
- [ ] **Research & Decisions:** Make a final decision on the identity and authentication provider based on a consolidated decision matrix (to be created on Confluence).
- [ ] **ID.me Verification:** Contact ID.me to confirm if Authentication and Identity Proofing services are technically separable and if pricing can be unbundled. Also, ask about OIDC support and login requirements.
- [ ] **Cognito Analysis:** Speaker 4 to share Cognito prototypes; team to estimate the specific development time/lift required for implementation.
- [ ] **Compliance Checks:** Verify specific federal requirements regarding "tie to AAL2" compliance versus SMS-based MFA.
- [ ] **Alternative Vendors:** Verify FedRAMP/NIST certification status for Ping Identity and OneKosmos; research pricing/capabilities for Okta/Auth0.
### [AI Suggestions]
> **[AI Suggestions]**
> [AI has identified the following issues that were not concluded in the meeting or lack clear action items; please pay attention:]
> 1. **Integration Ambiguity:** There is ambiguity regarding how a chosen verification provider (e.g., Idemia) integrates with a separate authentication solution (user store/OAuth) if the primary vendor is unbundled.
> 2. **Technical Mechanics:** The technical mechanism for "swapping" proofing providers (plug-in logic, data translation, callback URLs) has not been defined.
> 3. **Migration Strategy:** The strategy for migrating users between providers in the future (handling password resets/user friction) is a known risk without a current mitigation plan.
> 4. **Cloud Lock-in:** The potential issue of cloud vendor lock-in (e.g., using AWS Cognito if a state client uses Azure/GCP) was raised but not resolved.
> 5. **Long-term Scope:** The readiness of the "Global License Repository" (GLR) entity ID system is unclear and may impact multi-state architecture decisions.