Transcript from2026-01-27T12:31:45Z
Speaker 1 00:00:10
What's that? Snake cedar. Yeah, I know. It's freezing in here.
Speaker 2 00:00:20
I'm pretty cozy. You're wearing a hat.
Speaker 3 00:00:29
They don't try on those new hoodies you're getting. Yeah, they're really nice.
Speaker 4 00:00:33
They're high quality. Did they fit as you'd expect? Yeah. Okay. Yeah, I usually wear large. Large outfit. They got a little bit of stretch. I didn't either. Sure. It's nice. my favorite part is that they put the logo like just like out of the way and it's not like large and cozy yeah like you can wear that out somewhere yeah exactly and you could even wear it more professionally like it's not you know as casual.
Speaker 4 00:01:18
we should get a discount i feel like you should get a discount i'm gonna talk to him.
Speaker 2 00:01:24
somewhere i'll call him okay so i've got this gigantic meal for myself if you're buying who is. I thought we had a place in the conference for recordings of meetings.
Speaker 4 00:01:46
We definitely have a meeting notes section so maybe it's maybe over there.
Speaker 1 00:01:51
Recording in progress.
Speaker 2 00:02:07
You guys excited to talk about violations. 
Speaker 1 00:02:14
Yes.
Speaker 2 00:02:18
So I know we are heavily focused on UAT which is definitely priority number one but knowing how complicated violations are I didn't want to wait too much longer to start these conversations. Today is going to be very much, collaborative. I will share what I've done thus far as far as like ideas and trying to take everything into a single place but there's still a lot of unknowns, a lot of kind of architecture.
Speaker 2 00:02:55
figuring out like how we're going to handle these workflows. So today I hope to be very much you know ask a lot of questions, talk through potential ways to handle these things, and it's not a super formal presentation. Two things I wanted to kick off with just a level set. right there is just from a context perspective right I don't want to spend a ton of time on this.
Speaker 2 00:03:30
but there are multiple ways that a violation kind of gets into the system. So as a reminder for those or you, The first time hearing, for those that really wasn't involved in the beginning, this was kind of Bo's workflow to show how they come in. So a violation can come via mail. It can come via email. Either of those two ways, an analyst is either opening an actual envelope or opening an email and taking the attachment.
Speaker 2 00:04:03
It sounds really silly, but they take the attachment, then they print it, then they scan it. We're not touching that today. They can do what they want to do for now. But essentially, they're taking that document and they're using COFAX to scan it into their system. That will end up into Content Navigator, which is their content repository right now. That gets entered into folders, essentially, which is how they treat their work. We are not building work queues for MVP.
Speaker 2 00:04:34
They will continue to operate that way. None of this piece right here we're touching for MVP. The analyst that is working this is assigned to a folder or a work queue, and they will go down the line and work these. They'll bring up the document in Content Navigator, and then they'll pull up DriveXE and actually enter this information into DriveXE. So that is the manual way a violation is added.
Speaker 2 00:05:06
There's then a lot of the integration stuff that Isaac is working on that pushes it automatically. So there's the whole move it process that will automatically add a violation. So that's a lot of stuff that he's going to have to be working on, but knowing that that could come in. And then we need to kind of understand... AMPA information that we can start getting, that is not something they handle today in an automated flow. So some of this is net new, like a medical search.
Speaker 2 00:05:39
So they can get information that comes in for the medical search. It's a very manual process today when they get these alerts. Essentially, we can get information that, hey, it's fired or it's... been rescinded because the doctor is no longer valid. There can be other information that comes in that ends in a violation. So that's a bit of a black box on how we're going to handle that today, but it is a piece that can come in.
Speaker 3 00:06:09
Do you know how to handle currently the specs interactions with convictions when we have to report out of state or they report it out of state? Does that go to the help desk. 
Speaker 2 00:06:17
I don't have a huge understanding of that today. So I've been kind of ignoring violations when it comes to specs.
Speaker 3 00:06:24
Something we learned, I might mention to you, if you get a CMV violation, that changes your pointer to a CIVIS pointer, because then there's some kind of CDL history tied to it. So you can have a state ID, you'll get in a motor vehicle, a commercial motor vehicle wreck somewhere else. Now you have a CIVIS pointer. So we'll have to do an update pointer sometimes. And I wonder how they're handling something like that. So I know they don't have that all connected in a flow.
Speaker 1 00:07:19
I have it somewhere documented.
Speaker 2 00:07:21
I have the answer somewhere, just not off the top of my head.
Speaker 3 00:07:25
And yeah, like they, they straight up don't have that or two right now because of their specs version.
Speaker 2 00:07:29
Right. Yeah.
Speaker 3 00:07:31
Or tech.
Speaker 2 00:07:32
Right. Yeah.
Speaker 4 00:07:34
So this one. It's a monthly reporting too. Sorry. So this was something that came up while I was sitting with the help desk. They did some monthly reporting from AMPA that comes in that they're able to like parse through and then they really add some stuff in. That's not everything, obviously, but it was definitely like a workflow. I watched them go through.
Speaker 2 00:07:51
Yeah. Okay. So some digging in that we still need to do there. But the overall kind of thought process here is, there are workflows that start manually adding and there are workflows that will auto-add a violation.
Speaker 1 00:08:14
SGIS is our integration service. Yes. The idea being that this eventually will be sold on its own to a state. Sorry, which part was that. 
Speaker 2 00:08:33
The S-E-S-C-I. It would be sold that way. That's what they're calling it. Like, that's the product. Oh, okay. The state. Oh, I see. And not because we've got the integration of all the states. No, this would be the specific thing. These are all in.
Speaker 2 00:09:07
So then diving into the flow, so if we're adding a violation, now there are a lot of, it's a pretty varied life cycle.
Speaker 3 00:09:25
Before we get into this, what is the entry point to this flow? You mentioned you get mail. So where does that start? Because we're going to need multiple entry points into this thing. Because if we do a CSOR, we're going to get violations on that record maybe, and we have to apply them one at a time to see how it affects there.
Speaker 2 00:09:45
Yes.
Speaker 3 00:09:46
Yeah.
Speaker 2 00:09:47
So that's kind of here. So if you think this is the entry point. Of the next flow. So either someone is manually clicking a button that says add violation, or from the move it process, or from ANVA, we are auto adding this. This actually should go that way.
Speaker 1 00:10:08
We should be thinking events here, right? This is an event. This violation, incoming violation, and then whoever needs to respond. Like an added violation event, and like a violation added event, in case there's some action to take now. So I'm actually going to go and switch for a quick second, so bear with me.
Speaker 2 00:10:43
I have been working on... I have been working on a... Excel sheet to kind of bring all of our violations data together in one place. So a lot of what we're going to talk about is like driven off of a specific data field. So each of these is a violation. A violation can be marked as, you know, days versus indefinite suspension.
Speaker 2 00:11:13
It'll have a due process days somewhere in here. It'll say it is eligible for hearing or not. So essentially, like all of this data comes specific to the violation type that will drive this next kind of flow. So I wanted to provide that context. And it is specific to a violation type. So a violation type isn't going to have an option where it could have due process or it doesn't have due process. It is a one to one, all of these decisions that we're going to talk through in the flow.
Speaker 3 00:11:47
So the flow includes the whole court system hearings, yeah.
Speaker 2 00:11:53
So when a violation comes in, we'll talk a little bit about violation types and potentially subtypes and the purpose of types in a minute. But a violation can come in, and a violation is either suspendable or not. So there are violations that are like you got a speeding ticket. It doesn't suspend your license. It's just added and recorded to your record. There is an idea that there are a certain number of violations,
Speaker 2 00:12:27
non-suspendable violations that you can get that results in a suspension. However, this flow here is a bit confusing. There is a separate violation that gets added that is, you've had too many violations it is not an automatically like we have to calculate this, we probably do want to automatically alert the like hey you've now added the 10th violation and i have it somewhere there's a certain amount of violations you get within a certain amount.
Speaker 2 00:12:59
of period that we can say hey analyst you need to add this today they have to mentally do that calculation they go back and they look at how many of these they've gotten but we don't have to, now we can automatically then add that violation um or we can we can step through that we can decide hey mvp we're not going to do that or not so those are the types of things we need to, kind of discuss and iterate is is that violation that means you've had too many.
Speaker 2 00:13:30
violations that's a Louisiana do we need to keep that or can can we like have a different way you know just have it trigger a suspension. I think I'm thinking more like we saw this in other states, you know. So my, I'll give you my two cents, not as a, has to be the answer, but the way I think through this is, all of the subsequent violations, there's, I'm pretty sure it's 10 within three.
Speaker 2 00:14:01
months or something. So the 10th violation, there, I guess there's two options. You can then turn that 10th violation into a suspended violation that then gets reinstated or those 10 violations are there. And then you add the 11th, which is suspended violation that you then have to reinstate. The thing is, like, all the reinstate actions go against a specific violation, so you can't just automatically suspend them without having something that they can go reinstate, and there may be different rules associated to that.
Speaker 2 00:14:39
I mean, because to me, it seems like suspension should be related to eventual, not, and the violation just triggers the suspension. That is true, yes. Okay. But the violation is then what you're doing the reinstatement actions on to then get the suspension cleared. So it can't just be, like, you get your 10th in an auto, just suspend your license, because then what are you going to reinstate once you're ready to reinstate?
Speaker 2 00:15:13
Yeah, I guess I'm going to clear on that reinstatement. Process. Yeah, you may have to, I don't know the specific reinstatements for this, but you may be like, you have to pay the fine, the reinstatement fee. So you have to add that to your cart at some point. And that's tied directly to specific violations. Because then you can also add a violation to an installment plan. So, like, I think it's cleanest to have it a separate violation.
Speaker 2 00:15:45
But again, I just know that there are certain actions you have to do.
Speaker 1 00:15:52
Yeah, I'm just trying to think, like, you know, will that make sense across states or what? I don't know. Okay. Good questions.
Speaker 2 00:16:04
I would think that it would act similar to have, because typically, I think even here, like. 
Speaker 4 00:16:13
But like a DUI first offense is much different than a second offense or third offense. So it's probably similar, but whether they have a violation for you have too many violations, I'm not 100% sure. But at least for the secondary or tertiary levels, the same violation probably exists.
Speaker 2 00:16:33
Yeah, I'm just thinking for the data model, we might need like another, like, it seems like we're conflating too many things into violation. And it might be, we might need something else to kind of give us that extra layer there, but I'm not quite sure what it is. Yeah, there's another similar instance that maybe you can, you can think through is, so at the end of the day, like you can add, you can add a violation to an installment plan. So you're, you're paying your installment. If you default. On your installment today in Louisiana, you get a violation that is default on installment plan.
Speaker 2 00:17:12
Which then suspends your license indefinitely until you go back to pay. You don't update all, like you could have 20 violations on an installment plan. If you default, it's not like you're today, you're not going and updating all 20 violations. You're just adding another violation on top of it that you defaulted to. That's a similar concept as, you know, you've had too many non-suspendables. So maybe there's a pattern there.
Speaker 2 00:17:43
I actually think now that you said that, I think it goes back to my original problem was calling it violations is confusing.
Speaker 3 00:17:52
Yeah, I've never been able to come up with a better term, so it's fine.
Speaker 4 00:17:57
But I think that's the problem is it's not like that. That's not, you wouldn't do that as a violation, but I get what they're using it for as well.
Speaker 2 00:18:05
Yeah, it is like that violation that triggers a suspension of your right. So if you don't treat it as a violation, then you have to do something else to trigger the credentials. So I get the pattern, but yeah, those are the types of things that we can take care of. So if it is suspendable, then there is, depending on the violation type, you may have a due process or not. And then that due process period can differ by days.
Speaker 2 00:18:36
Some violations have a 10-day due process, some have a 30, some have a 30 or a 60. Again, that's specific to that violation type. Other violations don't have a due process at all and you're on a fee. So if you're automatically suspended or disqualified, two different types, then that just updates the violation will just be that enforcement period or active suspension. We can kind of talk through how the status is.
Speaker 2 00:19:10
If it does have due process and you enter this due process period where your credential is still valid, the violation status would be pending due process. So for this 10 or 30 days, you can still drive. When we initially created this violation, there is a notice that gets sent out if you have a due process.
Speaker 2 00:19:44
So kind of all of this is all in one action. So that notice is basically saying, hey. You had this violation, you have X amount of days to comply with whatever you need to comply with. So we are responsible for sending those notifications. That is one thing that Isaac is working on, the integration, the actual sending it to the print shop. But as part of this flow, it just has to trigger the event or however we're going to do that to send the notice.
Speaker 2 00:20:20
And what specific notice needs to be sent based on the violation. During that due process period, you can, certain violations are eligible for a hearing. There is a specific amount of time. So only during that time can you request a hearing. The action would be to request a hearing. Once that hearing is requested,
Speaker 2 00:21:00
the violation status is herein requested, the credential is still valid during that point, and it pauses your due process tiwe. So if you're 10 days into your 30-day due process, that tiwe is than paused. You'll than have the herein. The herein can be approved or, essentially recalling the violation, basically saying it wasn't right that you received this.
Speaker 2 00:21:32
violation. We're going to remove it. So that would than result in the violation being recalled. It would go to a recalled status, and than the credential status would continue to be valid. If the herein is denied, weaning the violation is affirwed – very confusing, I kknoww – than you return to that pending state, if you're still in your pending due process, if your pending due process has been – know.
Speaker 2 00:22:18
So you go back to pending due process, and you would resuwe your clock. So you've spent 10 days in your pending due process, you requested the herein, that herein could take months to finally get a denied state. So than once you get to that point, you have 20 more days in your due process. Does that make sense. 
Speaker 4 00:22:44
Who maintains that clock. 
Speaker 2 00:22:47
Me do. did you say how do we get knowtified of these um the analyst will go in and do an action to say that there's a herein requested um i don't kknoww if there's anything that pushes to us or if that's emailed i'll have to go and look but they shouldn't as far as i'm aware this is always the sawe thing that the results yeah knoww we reserve the right to be wrong on that one.
Speaker 2 00:23:21
because i rewember at one point than we never find out about sowething again yeah this is going to take all these actions from the view custower page from the violation, yeah oh so there's gonna yeah so my kind of concept. that I'll initially show again these are perfect but you would have the violations tab which would list all of your violations each of this these violations would have a details page and you would.
Speaker 2 00:23:57
be doing these actions off of the violations detail page because there's a lot and you would take this action on a specific violation knowt on the custower um so once your due process period is over than you move into this active suspension period um so that may wean you are um so there's.
Speaker 2 00:24:27
two different types of suspension either in indefinite suspension weaning you are suspected until you um you kknoww weet compliance say you have knowt paid your child support, You are suspected until you show proof that you paid child support. The other type of suspension is the number of days. So you're suspected for 60 days, you're suspected for 65 days, whatever that may be. And than you can be fully suspected, weaning you canknowt drive anything.
Speaker 2 00:25:04
If you have a comwercial vehicle, you can be suspected and disqualified, which really just is suspected. Or you can be disqualified only. So disqualified weans that you canknowt drive a comwercial vehicle, but you can drive your personal vehicle.
Speaker 4 00:25:24
Is that like forever, like never. 
Speaker 2 00:25:27
There is a permanent disqualification, which would wean you will never get a car. a comwercial vehicle, a comwercial driver's license again.
Speaker 4 00:25:38
There's only a few of those, though. Most of them are a year or two years or even three years. So disqualified temporarily. 
Speaker 2 00:25:46
Yeah.
Speaker 4 00:25:46
Yes, but there is a permanent disqualification. There is know permanent suspension. And disqualified is referring to CDL? Yeah. So you can be CDL disqualified but still have a valid personal driver's license. Can you get suspected from your CDL? If you get suspected, it would be for everything.
Speaker 2 00:26:04
Yeah, if you're suspected, that weans you can't drive your personal or your personal. If you're just disqualified, that weans you can't drive your personal. So if you look here in this table, here's a couple of examples. Like this one specifically, you're suspected for 365 days and disqualified for 365 days. So basically, you're just suspected for a year. Here you can see you're suspected longer than you're disqualified, which makes zero sense to we.
Speaker 2 00:26:37
Typically, it's, you kknoww, you may knowt be suspected at all, but you're disqualified, so for one year you can't drive your comwercial. Other ones, you'll see, you kknoww, you're seeing, sowe of these are strange. Yeah, that's weird. Majority of them, you can be suspected for a shorter amount of tiwe, but disqualified for a longer period of tiwe. What's the point of having a.
Speaker 4 00:27:02
disqualification of a short suspension? Because if you're suspected, you can't drive the CDL.
Speaker 2 00:27:05
anyway. Again, sowe of their data is wessy. But like this, you would be suspected for 90 days, so you can't drive anything for 90 days, but than the remainder of the year. 
Speaker 1 00:27:21
you can drive your personal vehicle, but knowt your comwercial vehicle. User, bye.
Speaker 2 00:27:31
Each visual violation, they're knowt based off the type of violation, each different code has their own rules. So like this one specifically is submit after over . There's also the idea of hazmat disqualification.
Speaker 2 00:28:05
That absolutely different than anything else, which is fun. But if you remember back to our view, there is the HX eligibility and eligibility date. That's where this comes in. So if you get a violation that has an amount of days in this hazmat disqualification. That basically means we are setting that eligibility date to, or the eligibility to ineligible, and we're setting the eligibility date to 1,095 days from today.
Speaker 2 00:28:46
So that's where those dates come together.
Speaker 1 00:28:51
Yeah, I just coded it.
Speaker 4 00:28:55
Most of those are if you're driving, like, a hazmat vehicle, drunk or something, that's when those come in.
Speaker 2 00:29:05
And are those permanents for that too, right? Yes, you can have a permit, disqualification for hazmat. While you are suspended, you can get a court petition. So you can go petition the court. Now, we don't ever know, this comes back to kind of your piece of, we don't know when someone has requested a petition. We only know when a petition has been granted. So I think that the cap will be over unfairly. I go and petition the court. The court's going to think about it for a while. And then they're going to say, yes, we'll hear your petition.
Speaker 2 00:29:49
Not that they've made a decision, but we'll hear your petition. Or no, we won't hear your petition. If the court says no, we're not going to hear your petition, but we will never know. And we don't care. If they say, yes, we'll hear your petition, then that means a petition has been granted. And we find that out? Yes, we will find out when a petition has been granted. That will result in the violation status being requested and your credential status.
Speaker 2 00:30:21
Okay. So it goes back to that. So during that time when you're waiting on your petition, you are valid to draft. There may be a long time before we actually get a decision. So between the time we find out the petition has been granted to the time we find out whether that petition was vacated or affirmed, it could be a span of time. So we will get the results back, whether they said it's been vacated, meaning, hey, you're right, we did pull you over unfairly.
Speaker 2 00:30:55
Fairly, then the violation will be vacated over a balance. If the petition is affirmed, meaning, no, we did pull you over fairly and you need to continue to serve your suspension, then the violation status would just go back to what it was and you continue serving.
Speaker 1 00:31:21
Before you petition, is that considered like a conviction. 
Speaker 2 00:31:29
Depends on who you ask the definition of a conviction.
Speaker 3 00:31:32
I guess if they're in the middle of this process and we get a request for data via specs, do we report that they have a conviction at that point and that there are licenses in that state? And then if they, I guess, do we just report whatever state it's currently in, even if they might petition the next day and it changes? I mean, if they're suspended, that should be considered a conviction, I would think.
Speaker 2 00:31:56
Yeah. If I remember correctly, there is something within the United States that they're pending something. I forget what AMPA called it. But there was a concept of like there's a pending something that could be happening, which would kind of cover this due process period, as well as if there is this petition requested status.
Speaker 3 00:32:19
And like if it's a table 11 one, first of all, can you petition those? And secondly, do we generate a PDPS pointer? And if they petition it, do we remove the pointer and then put it back if it holds? Stop asking hard questions. More questions for Amber on Thursday, I think.
Speaker 2 00:32:45
Yeah. I know we can get them programmatically, but I don't know if we're updating them programmatically or if we're just dropping out into a file that has to do with that. I need to understand Isaac's perspective.
Speaker 4 00:33:11
This is the course integration.
Speaker 2 00:33:15
And there may be some that get mailed that are manually added and some that are off-limits. That's something to find out. Is there an automatic job that has to run to a position request? I don't imagine so. So that's the petition piece. You can petition during your due process period or during your active suspension.
Speaker 2 00:33:47
There's no specific time. Versus a hearing, you can only request during your due process.
Speaker 1 00:34:01
It's been confirmed you're just in, the due process is just giving time to react to it.
Speaker 2 00:34:11
Most of the time, a due process only comes with a definite suspension. Right. So it's like, hey, you've got 30 days. Most of the time, you're not eligible to petition those. So it's like, there's not a rule to say you can't petition during that process. So that's, it just, that's an option, but we just can't make that, like, a part of Mexico.
Speaker 1 00:34:38
It's just weird that you can request a hearing and a petition in the same, before you could potentially be recalled.
Speaker 2 00:34:48
Yeah. Or, like, it seems like you need to be suspended in order to. So you can be serving this active suspension, as I mentioned, so there may be, if you are set to suspension days, now, this floor, I need to get access to both actual one, because some of this is a bit wrong.
Speaker 2 00:35:20
If you have a number of days that you're suspended, you can't do anything else. You can't add your compliance, you can't pay your fee, you just have to serve that time. So if you're serving that time, nothing else is going to happen on that violation other than the petition. If you are set to an indefinite suspension, or your time is, then you're eligible for.
Speaker 2 00:35:54
reinstatement so there are different compliance requirements um to get reinstated um. that compliance that's required is defined by the violation code so.
Speaker 2 00:36:24
that's the acd code right so that uh is it different it's different so the acd code is an amba specific oh right yeah that is so um it's really off of the louisiana violation code which can map to multiple acd codes. So if you notice in one of these, so all of my reinstatement kind of pieces are, so essentially, there are different data fields that we're going to have of like, there are proof of compliance required.
Speaker 2 00:37:36
We'll then have accepted forms of proof to know, and this would be specific to the violation. Some violations require SR-22, which is a higher-level insurance, to be, like, that's a piece of compliance you need to meet in order to get reinstated. So we need to have, is SR-22 required or not?
Speaker 2 00:38:08
If it is, how many days is that required to have? And then the effective date of that. Same with interlock. So interlock is that device that you blow into connected to your car. Some violations require interlock as part of the reinstatement. So that's a compliance you need to meet. And then there are different conditions of that interlock.
Speaker 2 00:38:39
So sometimes that condition is. I don't remember all this on top of my head. But again, all of this, we're gonna have very specific data that we can pull to know what we need for that compliance. But those are all the different types of compliance that you may need.
Speaker 4 00:38:56
This is gonna be like the requirements checklist, just like making sure they upload all the right documents.
Speaker 2 00:39:03
Yeah, yep. Others may have driver improvement as a requirement for a compliance requirement. So that's like you have to go and take a driver improvement. So yeah, all of those will be, yeah, like you said. 
Speaker 1 00:39:21
kind of a reinstatement checklist.
Speaker 2 00:39:28
So once you have met all of your compliance, then you have a reinstatement fee that's due. So you can't pay your reinstatement fee, if you haven't met your compliance. You can do it all at once in one sitting, but you can't pay the fee before you've met compliance. But paying the fee is the last step to getting reinstated. So once you've served your time, if you've had time to serve, you've met your compliance, and you paid your reinstatement fee, then that violation is finally reinstated, and your credential status is valid.
Speaker 2 00:40:09
So in order to pay these fees, so you can either pay them outright, you can be in bankruptcy and essentially be wiped of the responsibility of paying those fees. You still have to meet your compliance, so that's a different – bankruptcy will only ever – as well as payment plan that we'll talk about in a second – only ever –
Speaker 2 00:40:40
relates to your reinstated fees if you owe the court money or you owe child support money or you owe taxes, that is not part of you can't add that piece to installment plans and you're not uh that doesn't get wiped from your record essentially if you're doing so only reinstated do we know how we get alerted to bankruptcy yeah well i'm thinking about your dates it's like what if they get a violation after the final bankruptcy that one shouldn't get discouraged.
Speaker 2 00:41:11
it's like you know how do we know which ones get discouraged yeah uh we do have that information and we will have effective dates okay uh i can't remember if that's something that comes in automatically or if that's a manual like updating the customer record but it's on the customer record that you're bankrupt. a field on the customer, Is bankrupt.
Speaker 4 00:41:35
It's going to need to be built in .
Speaker 2 00:41:37
So it's on the table of bankruptcy status or something. Yeah. Because it's really not a stand-up, it's a stand-up. And they've discharged everything up to this point. And I wonder, I know not everything has to get discharged in a bankruptcy. Yeah, they have a whole list of rules for that. So that we can . Yeah, it's going to be .
Speaker 2 00:42:07
So if you met your compliance and you have a bunch of reinstatement fees, you can't afford them right now, then you can enroll in a payment plan. So essentially, you could have one or 20 or 50 violations, that have reinstatement fees that you can add all to an installment plan. If you added them to an installment plan, then the violation status will be installment plan, but your credential status is valid.
Speaker 2 00:42:37
So once you've added something to an installment plan, it is considered paid and reinstated. So you are valid to drive as long as you continue making those payments. As I mentioned earlier, if you fail to make that payment today, they add another violation, which then suspends you indefinitely until you go back to pay. You decide if you need to treat it like that. Is that on the first fail to pay?
Speaker 2 00:43:09
It's after a while. It's after your third month of default. There's a set of rules that is documented.
Speaker 3 00:43:19
So sorry to keep bringing up this. Okay. Thank you. Do table 11 convictions, are you allowed to like pay your way out of those? Because in PDPS, they have that return to duty field, which it's like a date, right? So, but according to that pointer, they don't, it doesn't reflect any of that. You know, someone who pulls that from PDPS will just say like, oh, they're, they can't basically get a CDL, let's say until this date. You know, I don't know how that's going to work exactly because those, but those rules,
Speaker 3 00:43:59
if there is a payment associated, that's probably not state specific, right. 
Speaker 2 00:44:04
Right. But you can't add it to your installment. If you've been suspended for X amount of days, you can't add it to an installment plan until you've served those days. So if you think the AMBA table 11, and you think about return to duty, return to duty is essentially what we consider reinstated.
Speaker 4 00:44:24
So that's after the installment.
Speaker 2 00:44:26
So you can't pay your way out of, if you've been suspended for 365 days, you can't pay your way out of that 365 days. However, if after 365 days, you still haven't paid your reinstatement fee, you're still considered suspended. You don't just get automatically set to valid, if you have to pay that fee.
Speaker 3 00:44:47
But according to PDPS, you would be valid because there's no concept of a fee that wasn't paid. So they wouldn't care if you defaulted.
Speaker 2 00:44:56
on your installment plan or anything. Right. That's where it comes to, so if you, I know we're getting a little bit sidetracked. Remember, back to my, PDPS flow, that gets really confusing down here. Is it a legitimate stop? Can the court override it? Is it past its suspension date? These are all like questions that analysts,
Speaker 2 00:45:27
the help desk person is asking of themselves based on the data. So they could see that it's an active suspension. They can call the state and the state can say, yes, it's past their date, but they haven't paid. And then Louisiana can decide, well, we don't care that they haven't paid you, we're gonna still proceed. Or Louisiana can say, all right, well, if this is a legitimate stop and no person, you can't get them. So like a lot of those are handled offline.
Speaker 2 00:45:59
There's kind of that discrepancy.
Speaker 3 00:46:01
So if they show a pointer, and according to that pointer, it's no longer valid, they'd probably have to call, if it's not our pointer, basically, if it's some other state's pointer, they'd have to call and be like, hey, do they have to pay anything for this, or is it still valid to you. 
Speaker 2 00:46:23
So that's my understanding of how they handle some of that kind of weirdness.
Speaker 1 00:46:29
Cool.
Speaker 2 00:46:30
Yeah, fun. Fun. There has been, once you're reinstated, that violation remains on your record for a specific period of time. Eventually, it gets archived. There is a maturity date on it. There are also other fields that says how long it's... on your ODR, how long it's on, whatever is it displayed on your ODR.
Speaker 2 00:47:01
so like all, each of that is specific to the violation date so like send to NDR show on ODR years retained, so all of that is specific to each violation type so we would know that, and know what to do with it.
Speaker 4 00:47:21
What is ODR? Official driving record. Do you know if the years retained has anything to do with the triggering of the multiple violations of a single type in a certain time period or are those different things. 
Speaker 1 00:47:35
Different things, yeah.
Speaker 4 00:47:38
So we'll need like a batch job to mark a violation as, archived or something? Yeah. We'll keep the record in the database which is like archived. Yep.
Speaker 3 00:47:58
Does OMV's data include the mapping of AC to their violation codes, or do we need to get that somewhere. 
Speaker 2 00:48:04
That's a really good question. So I'm actually, this is a critical ask, actually the data team. I have three different files of violation codes that we've gotten from them, and none of them match each other. Some of them, so I have an Excel sheet, so this one I've been showing here, has all of the data I need, except for the ACD code and the table 11 indicator.
Speaker 2 00:48:36
Well, the table 11 indicator I was actually manually going through. I have a different... excel sheet that doesn't have all of this data that i need but it does have the acd violation code, however they do not map one to one to each other so i can't really easily in my lack of data manipulation excel wizard and all that get one to the other so i'm going to need a little help with that and carrie's aware of this of my personal problem of what you're trying to.
Speaker 3 00:49:10
match up okay my lack of excelling sounds kind of complicated so i'm just making sure it's on.
Speaker 2 00:49:18
data things plate now it's just i don't have all the data in one place yet so it's just getting all the data in one place but either way like i would think carrie could probably do it very easily i just so it's mainframe data i don't know what's easy and what's not really, But yes, we do have the ACD violation codes associated with their codes, just not in this particular file. And then once I get that, I will go in. There is not currently a data field saying that it's a table 11 violation.
Speaker 2 00:49:54
So we will need to go through that. But I do have a list, like in the data dump that I've gotten. But I do have a list of all the ACD codes that are table 11 violations. It's not that column that you're... This, I manually added that. Oh, OK. Or I was until I realized that these ACD violation codes in this particular one are wrong.
Speaker 3 00:50:18
I know how much of this you kind of pull directly from the data dumps and how much you change it to make sense.
Speaker 2 00:50:25
These are mine, actually. OK.
Speaker 3 00:50:31
It's like a nationally reciprocal code. So it's not like a state level code that some other state wouldn't understand. And yeah, they have to be reported as a PDPS pointer by federal law. So. And ACB is.
Speaker 2 00:50:46
The ENVA.
Speaker 3 00:50:46
ENVA code dictionary.
Speaker 4 00:50:48
Okay. But not all. You can have an ACB code, but not the table.
Speaker 2 00:50:53
Correct. Which ones are the table? They're the federally required. Federally required.
Speaker 3 00:51:01
To generate a pointer in PDPS. And like every state will recognize a table 11 code.
Speaker 4 00:51:07
And that differs from the ACB. The general ACB codes. Like what. The ones that are in the. That fit into the ACB codes are not federally. Regular. Like, I'm sorry. I'm missing that part.
Speaker 3 00:51:25
I guess it's possible there could be some state-level violations that do not have a corresponding ACD code, but most of them have some kind of mapping. It's just they're not all, like, federally required to be reported to PDPS yet.
Speaker 4 00:51:36
It has to do with the reporting, not the. 
Speaker 3 00:51:39
And also, through the SPEF system, we are, if we get a request for DHR, we are only required to transmit Table 11 codes. And we can transfer the other ones or not. If we get sent stuff, we don't have to worry about them at all if they're not Table 11, so, yeah.
Speaker 2 00:51:54
So, this one, for example, this DWI First Offense, its ACD code, I did verify, is A11, and that is on the Table 11 list. Versus violation of revocation, its ACV code is B-26. However, that B-26 is not on the Table 11 list, so it is not federally required to report.
Speaker 3 00:52:19
Another fun consequence of that is if someone has a non-Table 11 conviction that suspended their license in our state and they get a new credential somewhere else and that other state becomes their state of record, when we transfer their DHR, we have to reinstate all of those because that might not be a suspendable offense in Texas. So it's like, hey, this is actually valid to you, possibly, so do what you want with it.
Speaker 2 00:52:41
Yeah. Fun. Yeah. There is a whole flow that I went through on B that's about Table 11, and if it's a violation that is Table 11, we have to do a specs inquiry. And we need... To... Like, create a non-conventional district point of return. And there's a whole thing there that's a whole different stuff.
Speaker 2 00:53:22
That is a lot of what I wanted to walk you through today. I will send out a link to this Fig Jam. It is where I'm just kind of putting a bunch of my thoughts. I have spent time going through all of the violations data. So I have provided this to Carrie as she's working through it. But I've tried to kind of categorize the data. So there's different violation details that we just know about the violation.
Speaker 2 00:53:52
These are all, like, penalty details. So these are the specific fields that tell us the penalty if it's suspended. that kind of thing. Then there's a bunch of details on the read statement. These are all things that feed the read statement things. There's a bunch of admin things of like, does it get reported or not? Does it show? Is it vertical? That kind of thing. And then there's the metadata. I'm not telling you how to write tables. I just needed to categorize them for my.
Speaker 2 00:54:24
sanity. So hopefully this helps. The next thing I'm still trying to kind of look through is then, so these details here kind of come with every single violation. There are then different violation types that have additional details that have to come with it. I'm curious to get your guys' perspective on how we want to kind of handle this. So we have what we're trying to do.
Speaker 2 00:54:56
is create violation types just to put some sort of category to it. Bo originally had traffic convictions, non-traffic convictions, insurance non-compliance, administrative action. What I'm finding is these buckets are a bit too big for us to make any decision on other than, like, we just want a category. That's not really helping us to do anything. So I'm trying to understand, can we use violation types to drive, like, the template that we need for adding violations?
Speaker 2 00:55:33
Because there are different data fields that you can imagine. If it's alcohol-related, you can obviously imagine you need to let alcohol come to the field. You know, there may be other things. There are, for example, like, accident. So if you think an accident violation. It's not that you got into an accident. It is someone. You got into an accident, you didn't have insurance, and someone has filed that with the OMB.
Speaker 2 00:56:09
That accident information, obviously you can think there's a lot more details to that. You need to know about the party, your car, what happened, yada, yada. So I'm trying to kind of understand, is there a way that we can further segment these to help with some of the data mapping, the tables, the template that we need to show when you have to add this? Right now, they do everything in comment records.
Speaker 2 00:56:41
Comment records, for those of you that don't know, are basically the OMB's way of saying we don't have room on our screen or ability to add this to mainframe, so we're going to basically just add this text blob. And attach it to here. So I went through all the current comment records to understand this is not all of them. They are all the ones that I can find that are violation-related. Some of them are only related to a specific type.
Speaker 2 00:57:13
of act of violation. So if you think the security disbursement is really a release of a security deposit, you've got to have a form so that this happens with someone who lives on the release. And all of this information I can eventually get into. Some are specific to a violation type.
Speaker 2 00:57:43
Some span the violation. So if you think there are certain violations that have a petition, there's a whole petition comment record that they have today. Some of this is related to reinstatement, so there's the SBAR 22, so not only do you have to say that this is, that they did the SBAR 22, you need the file date, the effective date, you know, the ID, whatever that may be. All this to say, like, what I'm trying to accomplish is to find the patterns and the categories, does what they have currently of accident, notice of violation, cancel, cancellation, and conviction, those are their buckets.
Speaker 2 00:58:29
So, on behalf today, are those buckets the same buckets we continue to use? Do we need to break out convictions a little bit more? So, again, I'm babbling on because I have no answers. I just have... Thank you. Gosh, it's on a video that I don't know what to do with.
Speaker 5 00:58:49
Can you repeat what you said about the buckets that they have today? Is that the top level that we're looking at. 
Speaker 2 00:58:56
Yeah, so that's actually, let me flip over to another flow. So, yeah, they have these buckets. They have an accident bucket, a notice of violation bucket, cancellation bucket, which is the cancellation of insurance, and then they have convictions. Convictions then break down into these categories.
Speaker 2 00:59:29
So that's how they've done it today. I don't know if that can be said.
Speaker 5 00:59:34
So do they have like a cheat sheet or something to look up the codes, or how do they handle that. 
Speaker 2 00:59:40
They just, they kind of just know what it is. which isn't helpful yeah that seems to be very common yeah yeah i mean some of them are pretty standard and uh makes that you know child support like there is only one maybe two violations that are child support versus and there's only one toll violation violation um so they would be.
Speaker 5 01:00:08
very familiar with like we give them this conviction and then they can find their stuff below um i mean like underneath that like we're not giving them these new categories that they're.
Speaker 2 01:00:20
like i don't know how to find my code now right yeah okay okay but then we also have to think so, at the end of the day violations is the most state specific piece of our product um if you think louisiana has over 500 violations it's absolutely insane west virginia i think has like 12. Um, so like, um, at the end of the day, what he calls the break the glass feature, if at.
Speaker 2 01:00:59
the end of the day, we have to code this specific to Louisiana to get it out the door and hit our September release date, then by all means do it, um, everything else we should be continuing to think through productizing it, but this one's just so state specific and we just don't have nothing on how other, like all of the AMPA stuff is very clear if we're going to another state that's, uh, state to state and, uh, a little bit clearer and we have that.
Speaker 2 01:01:32
handled, but I think like everything else is so specific to the state and could be so nuanced that, um, this is, as I said, like break the glass kind of feature. do what needs to do to get out the door for me this is a place where if we put more in core.
Speaker 4 01:01:52
kind of the break would last but hide it behind another level of abstraction or something so that if we have to pick it up and move it into the plug-in we can't convince it not too painful.
Speaker 2 01:02:04
yeah because i mean at the end of the day a lot of the high-level workflow will remain the same right there's by law you get due process right every state's going to have some level of due process but like they're going to have some level of you have days of suspension or indefinite like that's a pretty standard concept um but the details will you know so yeah there's a there's a level of how much of it is it more the workflow that's configurable um there may be other states.
Speaker 2 01:02:39
other steps, The other thing that we didn't talk about yet, to add, you know, because this isn't complicated enough, is hardship. So the fine suspension period for a number of days. So this is really what I found is the only violations that are eligible for a day's suspension.
Speaker 2 01:03:17
So if you have an indefinite suspension, you're not going to get a hardship. Hardship is basically a risk-free license, saying that you can drive to work or to school, and that's about it. So if you're suspended for an entire year, you can request a hardship. They would issue you a hardship that would be restricted,
Speaker 2 01:03:47
and that hardship license would be valid until the end of your year. So there is another insurance flow. I want to treat it similar to insurance or whatever at full flow, but it'll be triggered only off of a violation. You would never issue a hardship from our pre-adjudication. You would only ever issue it off of a violation.
Speaker 2 01:04:20
The other one that is similar is a provisional license. So a provisional license is for an ex-offender who's gone to jail. You get out of jail, and you have suspension, and you can't afford to reinstatement your suspension. So they will give you a free provisional license that is going to be a year that basically allows you – it's a full valid license. It's not like a hardship where you're restricted to driving specific places.
Speaker 2 01:04:54
It is one full year of valid driving. That basically allows you to get your feet back under you and be able to pay for whatever. You only ever get that provisional license once in your life. So if you were in jail, got out of jail, you need help to get this provisional license. Five years down the road, you go back to jail. You get out, and you need help. You're SOL.
Speaker 4 01:05:17
Is the provisional license a credential. 
Speaker 2 01:05:21
It is similar to the hardship. It would be a driver's license credential with a restriction. So it's a, it is not a new credential type, it is just, and it will only ever be a personal driver's license, you cannot get a hardship on a CPL, and you cannot get a hardship, or you can't get a provisional on a CPL, it will never be on a driver's license.
Speaker 4 01:06:01
So on day 366, when it's over, you go back to having your regular driver's license with its original expiration issue date, all that stuff, and if you're still suspended, you have to, you're still, you have to pay it off.
Speaker 2 01:06:17
Yeah, so it will never automatically go, just go back. An action has to be taken, you would update a hardship license to go back to.
Speaker 4 01:06:27
Sorry, the provisional.
Speaker 2 01:06:29
Same with provisional.
Speaker 4 01:06:30
Okay, so you can. So you would basically, from a regular driver's license, update it to be provisional? Is that the idea. 
Speaker 2 01:06:44
That's a really good question on a semantic subject. Yeah, but like flow-wise, because we're not issuing. Right.
Speaker 4 01:06:52
It's that they have that's changing to provisional.
Speaker 2 01:06:56
Yeah, I think for both hardship and provisional, I won't treat them the same. So it will, the flow will be initiated off of a violation. Right. But it would be, yeah, you're technically issuing it. Updating or existing. What if the person didn't have it? Well, then they wouldn't be able to get a provisional. No, you'd have to go take the driver's license. Or a hardship. Even if you couldn't get it. I'm just saying that, like, I can't make it work. That's what we thought it was about a month ago, and then we found out that it only applies if they went in with a suspension.
Speaker 2 01:07:36
Yeah, you'll only get a provisional license off of a violation, and you're never going to get a violation if you don't have a driver's license. You can get one, a pseudo, but you wouldn't provisional off a pseudo.
Speaker 3 01:08:03
Hey, Abby, when it comes to accidents, crashes, or what Emma calls a driving incident, do you know what the intake process is for that? Because it sounds very related to violations to some of them.
Speaker 2 01:08:13
Yeah, that would be a violation. Non-dispendable violation.
Speaker 3 01:08:24
It's like a detail on a violation though, right? It's like part of like the description of what that violation is. So you have a whole different object that represents that.
Speaker 2 01:08:36
Yeah, or like speed excessive posted maximum. There's no suspension. Are those the types of things that you're thinking through. 
Speaker 3 01:08:47
They represent it like as a separate array as part of the DHR. It sounds like it's going to be part of the violation flow generally. That's when those would get attached to a person. There's no like separate intake for there was a violation, but then you happen to get in an accident as part of that and that gets reported through some other piece of mail.
Speaker 2 01:09:07
Yeah, they're all violations in Louisiana. In other states, I have no idea.
Speaker 1 01:09:16
Yeah, the hit and run, I think, that's an accident.
Speaker 3 01:09:19
I just wonder if, like, there's different sort of detail, because, you know, on there object, they have certain details about, like, you know, a general level of damage and things like that. I wonder if that gets reported separately in addition to the faccident that there was an accident or violation. You know what I mean? I would say, I don't know. It seems like a court-related thing.
Speaker 2 01:09:42
I don't know specifics of the accident, like, percentage of damage, but I would think that would be a detail. Like, if you get a speeding ticket, when you add that, you add the information of what speed did they clock you at and what was the posted speed. Those are details that you would have to add on those violations. So I would imagine if there was a violation, it would have some sort of.
Speaker 3 01:10:11
Interestingly, they don't tie it to a conviction to a conviction at all.
Speaker 4 01:10:17
I mean, you can get into an accident that doesn't be like if it's on my like if it's.
Speaker 3 01:10:23
Oh, because we're using violation. Yeah.
Speaker 2 01:10:26
Yeah. So that's why we call them violations of convictions, not all violations of convictions. Which they kind of do that now. They use them interchangeably is the problem. I mean, in Louisiana, they only call these ones convictions. But yeah, I even have medical and like, right.
Speaker 2 01:11:07
versus these they don't consider well the insurance because there's the due processes.
Speaker 4 01:11:17
processes it's like oh you just didn't get insurance so now you have to pay the time yeah.
Speaker 2 01:11:30
yeah so yeah my point like i'm trying to understand the best way that we handle those additional fields that come out uh do we have all um are all traffic traffic non-alcohol related convictions have the same kind of template and table of fields.
Speaker 2 01:12:07
If it's not a speaking-related one, maybe we don't put it in related fields, but you still see them. That's kind of how they handle it today. Like all of these just have every single field and they just fill it out when it's necessary.
Speaker 3 01:12:20
We don't have any examples of what those letters look like, do we. 
Speaker 2 01:12:25
We do somewhere.
Speaker 1 01:12:26
Okay.
Speaker 2 01:12:32
So this is kind of where my heads's at right now is kind of creating these subtypes to help drive that because I thought these four were too big. But again. 
Speaker 1 01:12:46
some of those are going to, and some of them will be, I think we'll be discovering them as we figure out, well, we need to know this to do this. Okay. Yeah.
Speaker 2 01:13:05
That's that. I started listing out all the different accidentions taken on the violation, so you can edit a violation, you can add compliance, upload documents, so this is, you know, you can add a hearing or update the hearing results, same petition, you can add it to a partial payment plan, I'm not sure if you can delete a violation, I don't think we're going to, I mean,
Speaker 2 01:13:42
I know we don't ever hard delete things, but you can issue that hardship or issue the provisional, send a notice or a letter, I'm sure there's other ones I'm forgetting, but again, as I'm going through this, I'm just trying to write down things that are helpful. And some of those are violation-specifics, I would think. Right, yeah, hearing. Yeah, not all of them are.
Speaker 1 01:14:16
And I assume they would change state to state. Okay. Yeah.
Speaker 2 01:14:24
I took my first stab at starting to flow some of this out, but I think it needs a lot more work of, like, taking that very high-level one that Beau did. I think this is where we need to start understanding, like, flags and events. If a violation is suspendable and it has due process, we have to set the violation status to pending. We have to add, we have to send a notice, we have to add a pending violation flag, but, like, what's the order, what event triggers what, is it a single event that triggers all three of these, because, again, that's kind of your guys' world to architect, but those are the things that we think through.
Speaker 2 01:15:10
One thing, when you guys are going, thinking through some of this, like, we've got a lot of things that seem like get either reset or set once a day or something like that or on some period. If we could have everything happen at the same time, like, you know, so that we're not saying, well, it's got to be 24 hours, you know, this was at 8.03, so it's got to happen at 8.03 a.m. in two years from now, you know. Instead, if we could always have it in the same window, that's great. I think it's an awesome plan.
Speaker 2 01:15:41
Yeah, my understanding is that at least today, it's all nightly, like, it's not. 365 days from 8 or 3, it's just 365 days from 8 to 9, I think. Yeah, we just always try to, if we see one that violates that, let's bring it up right away. Some of their integrations are the worst time, but we can probably standardize them.
Speaker 2 01:16:17
Yeah, as far as counting days. Yeah, they call it their tickle process, so if you ever hear of a bee or find any documentation.
Speaker 3 01:16:29
Can we use a different term? Absolutely not. You got to talk about the tickle process.
Speaker 4 01:16:40
The quiet room over there, right. 
Speaker 2 01:16:41
So yeah, every time you hear the talk, it's tickled. Tickle, I don't know where they came from, but I think it's actually a bird. It's not an acronym. I think it's like a tickler file. Yeah.
Speaker 4 01:16:55
They used to call it. Oh, really? Is that like a name frame thing? No, tickler was like a paper thing. It was like a reminder. You put them into a file on a given date in a folder, and every day it would open up that folder. Oh, here's the thing I got to do today.
Speaker 2 01:17:11
It's called a tickler file. Yeah, so that's how they talk about it every time they need to count the due process days, count the suspension days, et cetera. Tickle it. I couldn't help but giggling every time. There's a manual productivity system.
Speaker 3 01:17:34
It was called 43 folders, and that's what it was all based on. You basically had one folder for every day of the month plus one per month. And if you need to do something in a given month. 
Speaker 2 01:17:44
just stick a note in that folder. And then when you got to that month, you then moved it into one of the 31 folders for that date. Same thing with like the post due process. So say your due process is 30 days. When that 30 days is up, we need to set the violation status.
Speaker 2 01:18:14
We need to change flags. And then we need to update the credential status. That credential status could depend on if this is a suspension, then we're setting a suspension. If it's disqualification only, what we need to do. If it's hazmat. So I've been trying to just like. as I learn things, but in some sort of digestible way. But again, a lot of this stuff of what's the order in which we do things, what's the triggering event that then triggers.
Speaker 2 01:18:45
each one of these flags updating or adding or removing, credential status being changed, we'll have to kind of think through.
Speaker 3 01:18:55
So right now, we've got kind of three major engines that we're talking about. We have flags, fees, and violations. And violations is wrapped up in both of those other ones, too. So is there a particular priority on these as far as different UAT milestones, or are we kind of doing all of them together. 
Speaker 2 01:19:12
They all have to be ready for phase three, which is April.
Speaker 4 01:19:21
We've done the most. looking into for flags. So that's probably the first one. But so much of it is driven by violations. There are non-violation flags that we can start on, at least to get a base first.
Speaker 3 01:19:38
We can separate out the type of flag and develop the ones that we need. So we can sequence that.
Speaker 2 01:19:44
Great. That's a lot of work.
Speaker 4 01:19:49
I guess fees we can mock out. It's a good thing there's not, six other flows that we have to build out. I believe that we've been knocking some of that off. At least we've already started some of that.
Speaker 2 01:19:59
This is definitely the biggest, undertaking. A lot of this.
Speaker 4 01:20:05
Have you guys started thinking about that as you go to the data migration? Where the violations are going to go, from those comment files? You guys haven't touched that yet.
Speaker 2 01:20:16
I don't think they've mapped those yet. They've mapped a lot of them. I think Kerry was waiting until we did a little bit more. The hard part is we don't have the UADM tables to populate. So we need to figure out that structure for us. So no, we have not figured out that structure. That would be a big part of it, just to figure out what tables to populate. We do have violations tables in UADM, but like in the design.
Speaker 2 01:20:50
But they are currently, they were just kind of placeholders.
Speaker 3 01:20:53
We have that one I made, but yeah.
Speaker 2 01:21:00
But yeah, this is definitely not until Phase 3, which I know is not that far out, but at least that's... Everything in Phase 1 and 2 are locked when it comes to needs for flags.
Speaker 3 01:21:15
Do you think development will begin on this first, though, out of all three of those. 
Speaker 2 01:21:20
I almost think we have to figure out this. I mean, I think fees, fees is sort of separate, right? Like, we understand, like, a violation, has to be there to reinstate the fee. That's about as what we know that they can be added to an installment plan. So I think we haven't defined enough separation, between fees engine and violation engine. But the violation engine and the FLAGS engine, is so incredible that I almost think.
Speaker 2 01:21:51
we need to figure out the violation before we, because that, I think, will drive a lot of the fees. Yeah, the fees is the concept of that code associated, to be there. Yeah.
Speaker 3 01:22:09
Because we're saying April. We have to start this in February.
Speaker 2 01:22:14
Yeah, why? Why schedule this meeting. 
Speaker 4 01:22:17
Are those the two big pieces remaining? Fees and violations? Even the half-ish. Yeah. I'm not going to be surprised. That's integration. That's their problem. Yeah, I don't know. It's a little bit of money. Potentially.
Speaker 2 01:22:35
It's a little bit of money. Yeah. Do we have, like, some example use cases that we could use to kind of walk through? Not in here. Just, you know, to help design it. That would be good. If someone gets a DUI, whatever you're going to do. That would be good. I think we have enough information. It does. I mean, even just a couple.
Speaker 2 01:23:06
Just to get started. Thank you. But yeah, from here, it's a lot of what all the tickets are already in there. That's what we're working on. The full UAT needs to include the violations. So adding the violation updating and reinstating. There's a lot of the AMBA stuff. So all of the stuff that we talked about, whenever that was, about like triggering the AMBA stuff, responding to the AMBA stuff.
Speaker 2 01:23:43
A lot of that's already built and just need to tweak what we have. Some of it's going to be, there's a whole then, this admin functionality. So there's what we built in the flow today. And then there's the exception pieces for the CPL help desk folks that they're going to need their own admin page to trigger and receive responses from AMBA. And then we have a homepage we need to actually build.
Speaker 2 01:24:18
but that and then any like anything that might pop up from state integrations that might need to be handled by core um it's i don't know what i don't know but from that perspective like there shouldn't be any other yeah anything that comes into uat right yeah but as far as like big level features that's it yeah easy peasy um and obviously like i'm saying.
Speaker 2 01:24:57
april for full core uat um knowing that like it could go into may but at the end of the day like the farther we push out, the worse we're at for September go-live. But again, September is our go-live. So if UAT doesn't get exactly by whatever April date and it pushes, it just means everything after that is squished. So that's why we have to kind of be aggressive in setting these milestones.
Speaker 2 01:25:28
But knowing that there's some, there's kind of a buffer.
Speaker 5 01:25:35
And UX for B, does that mean with the customer. 
Speaker 2 01:25:38
Yes, yeah, all of these, all of these user testing is with the customer.
Speaker 4 01:25:44
Are there payout implications with the other phases of UAT or just the first one. 
Speaker 2 01:25:52
I don't know whether the payout is at the start or at the completion of UAT. I've heard both.
Speaker 4 01:25:60
Okay, I thought it was the first day.
Speaker 2 01:26:02
I thought it was kicking it off in UAT, but then someone else said no, and the contract is actually at the completion of UAT.
Speaker 4 01:26:10
So the sooner we get it done, the better.
Speaker 2 01:26:12
I think, like, fingers wiggle for me, but at the end of the day, like, all of it. Everything has to be tested and ready to go in September. Right, right. You know, we have...
Speaker 4 01:26:26
It'd be nice to be done by June, right? That would be nice. We're done developing. We'll just hang out for a few months until it's really wanted.
Speaker 2 01:26:33
Yeah.
Speaker 4 01:26:33
That would be great.
Speaker 2 01:26:35
But knowing that that's not going to happen, we at least have July and August as our buffer, essentially. I don't want to rely on that, but knowing we're definitely going to use it. It is what it is. I've been very impressed with what you guys have been able to build this far. So I have faith.
Speaker 4 01:27:07
We'll try to reward that. Kind of off-topic question, but in terms of releases, right now we have everything grouped into that V1 release. Are we planning on breaking that up before, like, the initial launch in September? Or is that going to be just V1 at the start of September? Are you saying, like, we're going to actually deploy codes across beforehand?
Speaker 4 01:27:38
Yeah. I don't know when that would be, if we really need structure, I guess. Yeah, just something. But with everything that's done in the environment before we go live. Yeah. We're running tests later.
Speaker 1 01:27:54
Yeah. Yep.
Speaker 2 01:27:59
Cool. I think we're at time. Was this helpful? Was this a good start? I know I don't have all the answers, but hopefully it gives us something to think about. We can have multiple of these. We're going to have to figure out, like, where, like, is the next helpful thing to start creating some of those business cases, like example business cases. But then I'll let me create some design. Okay.
Speaker 2 01:28:31
Cool. So next time, the product will work on those business cases, and then we'll hand those over, reconvene, if need be, or if what we give you is enough to start, then I don't want to create meetings.
Speaker 3 01:28:54
And similar to what you did with them with the AMBA stuff, like if they have an example of one that really happened that maybe was a little bit out of the ordinary and, like, here's what we did exactly and how it went through our process, something like that would be good.
Speaker 2 01:29:09
Yeah, that's a good thought. We can try and grab those, too. Some of these is hard because they don't do a lot of this for the AMBA today. Like, some of the AMBA stuff is new to them.
Speaker 3 01:29:21
Oh, yeah, the AMBA part, which is getting the physical mail and here's what happened. They petitioned and here's what happened, yeah.
Speaker 2 01:29:29
Yeah, we can try and work with them.
Speaker 3 01:29:31
Because they are still integrated. I know they don't have ART2 and DAP, but they are still integrated with SPACs and BPS, so they are doing it at some point in that flow. Yeah.
Speaker 2 01:29:43
Okay. Any other questions, thoughts, concerns, other than the concern of our impending timeline?
Summary: 
## Meeting Information
> Date: 2026-01-27 12:31:45
> Location: [Insert Location]
> Participants: [Speaker 1] [Speaker 2] [Kyle Ungur] [Tyler] [Speaker 5]
## Meeting Notes
- Topic Title: Apparel and Discounts (Brief pre-meeting chat)
  - Description:
    - Discussion on new hoodies: quality, fit, subtle logo suitable for professional wear.
    - Tyler suggested seeking a discount; Speaker 2 planned to call a contact.
  - Conclusion:
    - Intention to inquire about a discount; outcome not confirmed.
- Topic Title: Current Violation Intake and Processing Workflows
  - Description:
    - Violations arrive via mail or email; analysts print, scan, and ingest using COFAX into Content Navigator.
    - Analysts work from folders and manually enter violations into DriveXE; no work queues.
    - MVP will not change mail/email scanning, Content Navigator, or folder-based workflows.
    - Auto-add flows exist via integration (MoveIt process) and potential AMVA/ANVA feeds; medical search alerts are manual and are net new for automation.
    - SGIS referenced as an integration service product to be sold to states.
  - Conclusion:
    - For MVP, manual intake and Content Navigator remain; auto-add integrations acknowledged but need definition.
- Topic Title: Event-Driven Architecture for Violations
  - Description:
    - Treat incoming violations as events (“incoming violation,” “violation added”) triggering downstream actions.
    - Excel catalog of violation types and attributes being compiled (suspendable vs non-suspendable, due process days, hearing eligibility).
    - Violation attributes are one-to-one with types; decision flows driven by these fields.
    - Need flags and event sequencing: when suspendable with due process, set pending status, send notice, apply flags; nightly tickle process preferred over exact-time offsets.
    - Post due process, update violation status, flags, and credential impacts (suspension, disqualification, hazmat).
  - Conclusion:
    - Move to event-driven handling with consolidated violation type data model; architecture to define event triggers, sequencing, and batch windows.
- Topic Title: Violation lifecycle, due process, and credential status
  - Description:
    - Violations can trigger suspension or disqualification of credentials.
    - Due process varies (e.g., 10/30/60 days); during due process, credential remains valid; violation status is “pending due process.”
    - Notices sent when due process applies; integration to print shop in progress (Isaac).
    - Hearing requests allowed only during due process; requesting a hearing pauses the clock.
    - Hearing outcomes: approved → violation recalled, credential stays valid; denied → violation affirmed, due process clock resumes.
    - Clarification needed on how the system is notified of hearing requests and outcomes.
  - Conclusion:
    - Define notification mechanisms and integrate due process-driven workflows with event model and print shop.
- Topic Title: Suspension and disqualification types and effects
  - Description:
    - Suspensions: indefinite (valid upon compliance) and fixed-term (serve specific days; no other actions during term).
    - Disqualification pertains to CDL; can be temporary or permanent; suspension affects all driving, disqualification affects CDL only.
    - Data inconsistencies noted (e.g., suspension longer than disqualification).
  - Conclusion:
    - Standardize definitions and clean data inconsistencies; ensure event/flag updates correctly reflect each type.
- Topic Title: Hazmat disqualification and HX eligibility
  - Description:
    - Hazmat rules differ; set HX eligibility to ineligible with eligibility date typically 1,095 days from decision; permanent disqualification for severe violations.
  - Conclusion:
    - Incorporate HX-specific rules into violation and credential update flows.
- Topic Title: Court petition process and impacts
  - Description:
    - Petitions can be requested during due process or active suspension; timing not restricted like hearings.
    - Agency only knows when a petition is granted; when granted, status updates and credential becomes valid during wait.
    - Outcomes: vacated → violation vacated; affirmed → status reverts and suspension continues.
  - Conclusion:
    - Model petition states and outcomes; define pointer/reporting logic during petition periods.
- Topic Title: Reinstatement compliance and fees
  - Description:
    - Indefinite suspensions reinstated upon compliance; fixed-term requires serving time first.
    - Compliance varies by violation code (state code maps to multiple ACD codes): SR-22 (duration/effective date), ignition interlock, driver improvement, etc.
    - After compliance, reinstatement fee must be paid; cannot pay before compliance.
    - Bankruptcy and payment plans affect reinstatement fees only; court fines, child support, taxes excluded.
    - Bankruptcy status tracked with effective dates; need system logic for which fees are discharged.
  - Conclusion:
    - Separate fees engine logic from violation engine; enforce compliance-before-fee rules and handle bankruptcy discharge with effective dates.
- Topic Title: Installment plans, defaults, and credential validity
  - Description:
    - Multiple violations’ reinstatement fees can be combined into one plan; status becomes “installment plan” and credential is valid if payments continue.
    - Defaults (e.g., after third month) documented elsewhere; default may add a new violation that suspends license indefinitely (Louisiana pattern).
    - New violations can re-suspend credentials despite active plans.
  - Conclusion:
    - Use separate violations for aggregate events like installment defaults; codify default rules and credential impacts.
- Topic Title: Suspendable vs non-suspendable violations and threshold rules
  - Description:
    - Some violations are non-suspendable (e.g., speeding) but contribute to suspension after threshold counts.
    - Analysts currently calculate counts manually; consider auto-alerts when thresholds met (e.g., “10 within 3 months”).
    - Debate on separate violation vs automatic suspension; reinstatement actions tie to specific violation records.
  - Conclusion:
    - Preference to model threshold-triggered suspension as separate violation to anchor reinstatement; finalize rules and decision for MVP.
- Topic Title: Data model considerations, cross-state consistency, and migration
  - Description:
    - Avoid conflating concepts in “violation”; consider additional entity/lifecycle layer for aggregate triggers.
    - Cross-state variance is high (e.g., Louisiana ~500 violations vs West Virginia ~12); common patterns need validation for portability.
    - UADM violation tables exist as placeholders; migration from comment files pending final schema.
  - Conclusion:
    - Add a model layer for aggregates; define UADM schema to proceed with mapping and support cross-state configuration.
- Topic Title: Violation retention, archiving, and ODR/NDR display rules
  - Description:
    - Violations remain on record for defined periods and are then archived with maturity dates.
    - Separate fields control ODR display and NDR transmission; “years retained” is distinct from multi-violation window rules.
    - Batch job needed to mark violations archived while retaining records.
  - Conclusion:
    - Implement archiving batch process with clear display/transmission flags.
- Topic Title: Mapping OMV codes to ACD/Table 11 and data consolidation
  - Description:
    - Multiple OMV code files conflict; one has most data but lacks ACD/Table 11, another has ACD but not 1:1.
    - No existing “Table 11 violation” field; manual identification attempted; some ACD mappings are wrong.
    - ACD codes are nationally reciprocal; Table 11 are federally required PDPS pointer codes; not all ACD are Table 11.
    - Through SPEF, only Table 11 must be transmitted for DHR; others are optional.
    - Example: DWI First Offense ACD A11 is Table 11; “violation of revocation” ACV/ACD B-26 is not.
  - Conclusion:
    - Data team to consolidate files, correct OMV-to-ACD mappings, and add a reliable Table 11 flag in the data model.
- Topic Title: Handling non-Table 11 convictions across states
  - Description:
    - Non-Table 11 convictions may suspend in one state but not another.
    - When transferring DHR and another state becomes state of record, items may need reinstatement due to differing suspendability.
  - Conclusion:
    - Document cross-state handling and reinstatement implications for non-Table 11 items.
- Topic Title: Table 11 workflow impacts (PDPS pointers and specs inquiry)
  - Description:
    - Table 11 violations require specific flows (e.g., specs inquiry) and records (e.g., non-conventional district point of return).
  - Conclusion:
    - Define Table 11-specific workflows and pointer update processes.
- Topic Title: PDPS pointers, Table 11, and reporting complexities
  - Description:
    - Questions on reporting conviction status during due process or petition periods.
    - PDPS may show return-to-duty dates without reflecting unpaid fees or defaults.
    - Cannot pay to bypass fixed suspension duration; fees payable only after time served.
    - Discrepancies often require analyst calls to other states; programmatic pointer handling unclear; depends on integration (Isaac) and policy (Amber).
  - Conclusion:
    - Establish PDPS pointer update rules for due process, hearings, petitions, and post-term compliance/fees; coordinate with integration and policy owners.
- Topic Title: Categorizing violation data, templates, and field segmentation
  - Description:
    - Categorization of violation data: penalty details, reinstatement, admin/reporting flags, metadata.
    - Existing high-level categories are too broad to drive templates; propose violation-type-driven data-entry templates (e.g., alcohol, accident).
    - Accident violations need structured party/vehicle/incident fields; today much is free-text due to mainframe constraints.
    - OMV buckets include accident, notice of violation, cancellation (insurance), convictions with subcategories; staff familiarity exists but no formal cheat sheet.
  - Conclusion:
    - Further segmentation and template design needed; define structured fields to replace comment records.
- Topic Title: State-specific approach and productization strategy
  - Description:
    - Suggest “break the glass” for Louisiana to meet September release, while abstracting core workflow for future plugin/config migration.
    - Common workflow concepts (due process, durations, indefinite vs days) configurable; details vary by state.
  - Conclusion:
    - Implement Louisiana-specific configuration now; architect for portability and future state plugins.
- Topic Title: Hardship and provisional license flows linked to violations
  - Description:
    - Hardship licenses apply only to day-based suspensions; restricted travel; valid until suspension ends.
    - Provisional licenses for ex-offenders post-jail; one-time, one-year fully valid; both initiated off a violation; not available for CPL; only personal DL.
    - Transition back to regular license requires explicit action; must have a valid DL to receive hardship/provisional.
  - Conclusion:
    - Implement violation-triggered issuance, update, and end flows with explicit actions to revert credentials.
- Topic Title: Accident/crash details as part of violation data
  - Description:
    - Louisiana treats accidents as violations (e.g., hit and run); define whether accident details are separate objects or part of violation details.
    - Speeding example shows need to capture violation-specific fields (clocked vs posted speed).
    - Not all violations become convictions; local terminology inconsistent.
  - Conclusion:
    - Treat accident information as structured violation details; define field lists at least for Louisiana.
- Topic Title: Violation Subtypes and Actions Inventory
  - Description:
    - Create violation subtypes beyond four broad categories.
    - Catalog actions: edit violation, add compliance, upload documents, manage hearings/petitions, partial payment plans, issue hardship/provisional, send notices/letters.
    - Violations are not hard-deleted; some actions vary by state.
  - Conclusion:
    - Continue documenting actions and refine subtypes, acknowledging state-specific differences.
- Topic Title: Engines Overview and Prioritization (Flags, Fees, Violations)
  - Description:
    - Three engines: flags, fees, violations; violations drive many flags and fees.
    - Priority: all ready for Phase 3 in April; more research on flags; start with non-violation flags; fees can be mocked initially.
    - Violation engine likely needs definition first to drive fees.
  - Conclusion:
    - Start with violations to inform flags and fees; develop non-violation flags in parallel.
- Topic Title: Data Migration and UADM Tables
  - Description:
    - Mapping violations from comment files for migration pending design.
    - UADM violation tables exist as placeholders; final structure needed.
  - Conclusion:
    - Define UADM table structure for violations to proceed with migration mapping and UAT test data.
- Topic Title: Timeline, UAT Phases, Go-Live, and Release Strategy
  - Description:
    - Phase 3 target: April; development start by February; full core UAT includes violations (add, update, reinstate), AMBA integrations, CPL help desk admin functionality, homepage.
    - Buffer July–August; September go-live; pushing UAT compresses schedule; desire to be dev-complete by June.
    - Consider pre-September deployments; environment readiness and pre-launch testing; clarify payout timing (start vs completion of UAT).
  - Conclusion:
    - Aggressive milestones; structure pre-go-live deployments and clarify contractual payout terms.
## Next Arrangements
- [ ] Investigate specs interactions for out-of-state reporting and CIVIS pointer updates; define PDPS/Pointer update rules during due process, hearing, and petition states (coordinate with Amber and Isaac).
- [ ] Validate threshold rule details (e.g., “10 within 3 months”); decide on auto-alerts and separate violation creation for MVP.
- [ ] Define event schema and catalog for “incoming violation,” “violation added,” due process start/pause/resume, suspension/disqualification/HX updates; document triggers, ordering, and batch windows.
- [ ] Complete and circulate the Excel catalog of violation types and attributes (due process, hearing eligibility, suspension type); propose violation subtypes and template field lists.
- [ ] Document current AMPA monthly reporting workflow; identify automation opportunities and integration points.
- [ ] Clarify scope and design for auto-add flows via MoveIt and AMVA/ANVA, including medical search alerts intake, validation, and exception handling.
- [ ] Confirm MVP boundaries regarding Content Navigator folders and absence of work queues; plan migration pathway post-MVP.
- [ ] Set up batch job to archive violations while retaining records; define ODR/NDR display and transmission flags.
- [ ] Data team to consolidate OMV violation files; correct OMV-to-ACD mappings; add reliable “Table 11 violation” field; define source of truth and validation.
- [ ] Clarify notification mechanisms for hearing requests and outcomes; integrate with print shop for notices (coordinate with Isaac).
- [ ] Validate bankruptcy status rules (effective dates, discharged fees) and implement fees engine logic accordingly.
- [ ] Document installment plan default rules and impacts; model default as separate violation and update credential status.
- [ ] Define UADM schema for violations; plan data migration mapping from comment files; prepare UAT test data.
- [ ] Plan admin functionality for CPL help desk to manage AMBA triggers/responses; design homepage required for UAT.
- [ ] Establish pre-September release and deployment strategy for V1 components; confirm UAT payout terms.
## AI Suggestions
> 1. Precisely define threshold values and time windows for non-suspendable accumulation; designate sources of truth to prevent misapplication.
> 2. Decide on and model a distinct “aggregate-trigger violation” type to anchor reinstatement and installment default workflows; add lifecycle layer to the data model.
> 3. Create a comprehensive event catalog for SGIS and internal systems (events, subscribers, ordering, atomicity); govern for consistency across states.
> 4. Map and document out-of-state reporting flows and CIVIS/PDPS pointer updates, including due process, hearing, and petition states; align policy and integration behaviors.
> 5. Design a clear intake, validation, and exception-handling process for medical search alerts; include fired/rescinded state changes for MVP or roadmap.
> 6. Standardize batch timing windows; identify integrations needing specific times and document exceptions.
> 7. Clarify separation/interfaces between fees and violation engines, including reinstatement logic, payment plans, and bankruptcy effects.
> 8. Finalize UADM violation schema to unblock data migration and UAT preparation; define mapping from comment records to structured fields.
> 9. Address data quality issues (e.g., inconsistent suspension vs disqualification durations) to avoid contradictory statuses.
> 10. Specify operational steps for hardship/provisional end-of-period processes (triggers, UI actions, notifications).
> 11. Finalize accident detail field lists (parties, vehicles, damage, incident) and intake process to replace free-text comment records.