Speaker 1 00:00:00
your next role absolutely um so i'm the director of product and design i just stepped into that role recently i've been at the company a little bit over a year now but i've held other product leadership roles in other organizations um you know took a step back to do a little bit of the execution work and i had gotten away from it but as our team grew stepped into the leadership role and really excited to lead the team that we have uh we're growing exponentially the company is in.
Speaker 1 00:00:34
a really awesome stage i i tend to call it you know we've moved past the startup phase and we're now into the scale-up phase which is really exciting uh this is the third company i've joined at this stage and it's my absolute favorite you know we found product market fit and it's all about just the trajectory that we can go on sure making it happen at this point right yeah yes yes, But we have an abundance of work ahead of us, and so I'm really excited to just bring on awesome product talent to help us drive that.
Speaker 1 00:01:10
In all, you know, I like to, as a manager, I'm very transparent and will kind of explain everything that's going on to the team. But we are kind of at that transition phase from kind of the founder-led concept and product where... where it wasn't our founder it was our cto but he definitely drove the product roadmap it was very much okay here's what you're going to do go build it go build it this exact way you know all of that um we're shifting to product led so it is we're in a transition period so it's.
Speaker 1 00:01:45
a little bit of growing pains for some of our product members who are stepping into that role but i think it's not a really exciting opportunity to be very uh product led um while we have state contracts that we need to like build to uh we also get to kind of own that road map and figure out where we're taking the books and there's a number of zero to one opportunities that we have as well as growing our existing um that to say there's a lot of different opportunities.
Speaker 1 00:02:17
um and we're kind of just bringing folks on sometimes we'll bring them on to a very specific team sometimes we'll just bring them on and figure out what team makes sense for them, but i know there's there's another role that i wanted to kind of talk to a few about that i want to hear a little bit about what you're looking for first before um before i kind of get down to that potential side track so i would love to hear a little bit about your background and really what you're looking for in your next role yeah.
Speaker 2 00:02:46
absolutely so i i'm currently a product manager at highland software um and so your your comment around you know cto led um transitioning more product led resonated with me it's uh you're pretty sure the choir on that one so i've been here for 12 13 years now it's it's been my fresh out of college i was an intern i actually interned within our development our engineering department, it's where i got my job kind of got my start my my i have that mindset if you use our import.
Speaker 2 00:03:20
export ui for on base that was handcrafted by me in my lakewood apartment back in the day so, It was kind of a natural fit, you know, Hyland went through a bunch of acquisitions, which brought up this concept of product. So as I, you know, I'm very customer facing, I found I really enjoyed being able to see and hear and listen to what the customers like, and more importantly, what they don't like, what's not working for them. And I was, I found enjoyment, I found a lot of excellence, it fit me very well to bring that back to the team.
Speaker 2 00:03:60
And so that it was a natural fit for product. And whether that was product owner at first, and you know, we've shifted at Hyland to all product management. And then recently, they shifted me, I think, in the last two years into this AI space. And it's been a good, natural fit for kind of my engineering mindset. I find myself on a weekly, if not daily basis, kind of brainstorming, proof of concepting, using some of these new technologies alongside our sales department to really be able to demonstrate and showcase what we have here.
Speaker 2 00:04:35
at Highlands. It's been fun. Yeah, I bet. What are you looking for next? Yeah, so I've been with Highlands for a little while, so I've seen it kind of in all of those different stages and phases. One of the most, I can't seem to think of the right word, one of the most validating pieces, one of my favorite parts of my job was going from that zero to ten. I don't want to call it a specialty of mine, but I've brought three or four different product offerings up from a thought on a whiteboard.
Speaker 2 00:05:11
That's back when we would whiteboard through that customer validation phase, through the actual initial proof of concept. I've become the advocate for it. I'm able to kind of push my passion for the product onto some of our customers who may not understand what we're trying to build and really bring it to the market. I've done that quite a few times here. My most recent is through our knowledge discovery offering, which I did within nine months, ten months, alongside the engineering team.
Speaker 2 00:05:41
We had something that was actually tangible and being able to be sold, more importantly, as we kind of iterated through the wants and needs of our user base or our target user base. So yeah, all that being said, that's kind of what I'm looking for next. We've gotten maybe a little bit more. More. uh, official with some of the layers of leadership that are, are being included here at Highland recently. Um, it's exceedingly difficult to get new feature, actual wants and needs from our customers.
Speaker 2 00:06:17
passed and actually approved in some sense, um, simply because of the different layers of the, the cake or the onion per se. Um, so that's kind of what I'm looking for next is maybe a new opportunity to, to get back to my, my roots of, of just bringing product to the market based on customer's needs, based on what the market's looking for, um, and help kind of grow that, uh, grow that together with engineering.
Speaker 1 00:06:42
So, um, I know your, your resume and your, uh, linkedin profiles very specific to ai are you specifically looking for that or is that just, kind of recent is kind of where the market is going so i understand that but.
Speaker 2 00:06:60
yeah i'm not locked into ai uh at this point in time um it was you know the majority of my career i was a c-sharp developer um if not then we shifted into angular before i jumped into um angular react um i was pulled from that team and kind of directed towards this this ai initiative so i made the most of it um i made it my personality per se um but you know there's nothing stopping me from from doing that again you know i think.
Speaker 2 00:07:33
i see a real tangible value in a lot of the ai tech out there um and it's uh it's kind of shown me and really helped me uh grow and and learn how how to apply, that to some of the customer bases so, Yeah, not locked into AI at this point. I'm definitely open to learning more and seeing where I fit in.
Speaker 1 00:07:53
Awesome. Well, I know you answered a lot of questions from the team, and I've reviewed their notes, so I really wanted to open it up to you first and see what other questions you might have.
Speaker 2 00:08:08
Yeah, Sarah just mentioned that this was kind of a new opportunity from the outsider in, trying to understand kind of where this is, this conversation fits in with what I was doing with them. Just trying to get a lay of the land for what you're looking for, what you're thinking.
Speaker 1 00:08:27
Yeah, so as I mentioned, our team is growing rapidly, and we're still trying to figure out the right structure. So right now we have in place the, I'm not sure, did you meet with? All three leads, Tony, Tyler, and Jackie.
Speaker 2 00:08:43
Absolutely, yeah.
Speaker 1 00:08:46
so they're kind of starting to lead sections of our business um and they are all looking for a product manager or a senior product manager um but then in addition i have two other kind of roles i've been trying to figure out what i'm going to do with yeah um one is we actually just posted and i'm really curious what i'm going to get out in the market um is what we're calling a product architect okay and this is a unique role in that actually i have i have never worked.
Speaker 1 00:09:19
with a role like this before it's kind of a um a test for us but really one of the problems we're running into is we have a huge gap between our product, side of the business and our architecture and data side of the business okay, And this role first will kind of help bridge that gap. So we're looking for someone who has both the technical chops as well as the desire to understand the business and the user.
Speaker 1 00:09:52
We're building what we call a unified data model, so that all of our products will use. Previously, kind of in that startup mentality, it was just like build to get it out. Now it's build to scale. But what's really important is we spend a lot of time working with our states and our users to understand both their business needs and the ideal user experience and build the data model to fit that kind of scalability. So a lot of that work up to this point has been myself and our CTO kind of going in.
Speaker 1 00:10:24
You know, he has the technical mind. I come from a design background, so I have more of a user. And it's us going back and forth to decide kind of what this data model looks like. Also understanding that each state kind of handles the data model. So that's one of the things that we're building. things differently. I think examples are really good because this was new to me. I worked in previously in more traditional B2B SaaS where you build the product and they are going to either use it or not. Versus this, we have our core product and then we have state plugins because.
Speaker 1 00:10:56
each state does things differently. So one good example is we're building our credentialing product right now to manage driver licenses. And we're working first with the state of Louisiana. The state of Louisiana is a multi-credential state. So you can have both a state ID and a driver's license. And if you have a handicap, that's a whole separate printed card. Now in other states, you have one and then you could have what's called a handicap permit or that.
Speaker 1 00:11:30
like hang tag that you're used to seeing in cars. so we had to sit there and think like okay so in louisiana this is a credential, but in our next state this is going to be a permit sure how do we build the data model to support that in the right way and then where do we put in the state plug-in because our users are expecting it to work as a credential in this state we don't want to like completely change their world because this change management's really big in our system sure so we had to kind of really think through.
Speaker 1 00:12:05
their needs their business and the technology to figure out like okay we came to the agreement that it's going to be in the permit data model and the permit tables but on the ui in the state plug-in we're going to say treat this permit like it's a credential interesting okay, so those types of things like we need someone like myself and our cto can't be the bottleneck yeah um so we're i'm trying kind of to replace both of our brains yeah to be able to go in and.
Speaker 1 00:12:37
understand the business needs and the users needs and then bring it back to our data team and our engine our um we have an enterprise architecture team and then a data team and there there's a a gap in their ability to go to a state they don't want to be customer facing and so instead like yeah you know start to build that gap of now i'm constantly having to bring what we're hearing from our users to them translate it in a way and it's just it's slowing us down and yeah absolutely.
Speaker 1 00:13:12
um so i'm trying to kind of build this role to help bridge that gap but then also almost a product manager, for the data model, um because we have future use cases to um you know we need to start building the dashboard and reporting i'm going to need kind of that website to understand what they're looking for but then also help with translating that to the data team from a more technical need um.
Speaker 1 00:13:42
and then we also have a future outlook of art are the data that we actually own we have, customers that would pay for that data sure so we have a whole product in and of itself that could so that's one of the roles that i'm trying to fill and then the other one is we have what we're calling value added that cross product so we have our three leads tony tyler and jackie that you met.
Speaker 1 00:14:23
They both own a piece of the business, so Jackie owns our vehicle side, so that's titling and registration, both from dealers submitting, lenders doing liens, and then the actual BMV or DMV, depending on the state, managing those titles. Again, I'm trying to keep it as high level so you don't get confused.
Speaker 2 00:14:45
Oh, this is great. Yeah, great information, too.
Speaker 1 00:14:47
Yeah, so she owns that side. Tony is owning our credentialing side, so the one I just talked about, so building that zero to one, we're launching that in September. Okay. Never been built before. The state actually signed a contract with us to do that, but that's huge, and that's a really big piece. And then Tyler owns our digital side, so we're actually trying to launch digital titles instead of a paper title. But on top of that, we have things.
Speaker 1 00:15:19
That's what we're from. so a good example is we want to build a fees engine so that there's so many times that we have to generate fees and we've been actually using a partner to help drive that which we're trying to get away from that partnership but there's so many intricacies when it comes to fees and the state needs so we kind of want to build this core fees engine that we can then put.
Speaker 1 00:15:51
that state plug-in on for like skews so we need to kind of build something like that um there are other value ads um that kind of cross that platform that's very zero to one very r d at this point so i'm looking for uh potentially a role to help kind of bring those to life, because it kind of crosses those three other roles, it wouldn't necessarily be under one of those roles or under those managers kind of sit off to the side. So those are both kind of roles.
Speaker 1 00:16:25
I'm playing with. And I think it sounds like your background could really fit either of them in addition to any of the other product managers. So, you know, I think you seem to be the case where we would kind of bring in and feel where you would fit after getting onboarded. But, yeah, because of the constant change and the rapid growth, roles are very open. It's very much.
Speaker 1 00:16:56
the time to come into our organization and build your own role, like pave your own path. which is, I think, really exciting from a product management perspective. Like, you really can come in and find out, like, oh, you don't have an interest here. Like, I think I can carve this path for myself because it's so kind of unknown and growing.
Speaker 2 00:17:18
Sure. Yeah, that engineering lead product, did you have an official title for that first one. 
Speaker 1 00:17:25
I called it a product architect.
Speaker 2 00:17:27
Product architect, yeah. The way you described it is really interesting because... Like, I come from the configuration side of OnBase, which has to scale across all of these different verticals, organizations, government, not government, higher ed. So it's that, I'm just kind of brainstorming, thinking out loud, could that type of configuration experience also be applied here to some of the different types of credentialing, right? And then, of course, I'm a natural fit for customer facing. That's what I love.
Speaker 2 00:18:03
I love seeing that spark go off in some of their eyes when I talk about it, or I like to see some of the passion in their eyes when they hate something. Recently, they highly put us through the Silicon Valley product group training for product management. How was that? I found a lot of value in it. Yeah? I've never had official product managers. I don't know if I should say that on an interview. I haven't either. Yeah. But it really refocused my thought process around problems.
Speaker 2 00:18:36
You know, what are the problem statements? Not necessarily, let's deliver this chunk of work, but why, you know, what is it solving? Which was oftentimes a artifact of that CTO driven, CEO driven experience. Yeah, I would highly recommend if you or the group have an opportunity to go through it. It was, I think it was a little costly. He came in, we did a couple of days. I think the cost was mostly on our time, but it was great. Yeah, highly recommended.
Speaker 1 00:19:07
Yeah, yeah, I know. I've seen them post those trainings and talk about them and I'm like, oh, God, that sounds awesome. But yeah, that's interesting. Yeah, I definitely want to look for opportunities to grow the team and continue to expand those. both the product side and kind of the collaboration and how the teams i love product, operating model concept of you know moving towards that three tiered product design and engineering.
Speaker 1 00:19:44
lead yeah yeah all of that i would love to have our team do that yeah i started pulling in our.
Speaker 2 00:19:51
our engineering one of my architects actually i started just pulling him into the calls based on on that you know even i'm trying to get us on site with a customer but his uh he's over in portugal so um it kind of makes the co-located teams a little bit difficult to manage so yeah that is.
Speaker 1 00:20:12
How do you feel about traveling if you were to go on-site to states? Would you be okay with that. 
Speaker 2 00:20:17
Yeah, so currently I'm probably a once-a-quarter, twice-a-quarter type of travel right now. I'm definitely open to it. I have two kids at home. I take them to daycare. Days I don't take them to daycare, I hear about it from them, not even my wife. But I'm absolutely open to traveling and being able to be on-site and that sort of functionality.
Speaker 1 00:20:44
Yeah, I would expect that this product architect role would go into a lot of our kickoffs. So we typically do an on-site kickoff with the state to understand. We do what we call JAD sessions, joint architecture design, so that was new to me when I started here. I had never heard it called that. but we do that with them to understand kind of their business their needs what they call different things and then that's how we kind of start the product design and figuring out what that state.
Speaker 1 00:21:22
plugin is we're moving a lot of our key products to a gen 2 right now getting away from the very highly state specific versions that we did in the beginning to this larger scalable model, so we're really that's kind of all of 2026 is going to be what i've been coining the phrase, building the launch pad.
Speaker 1 00:21:52
So we've really kind of identified the rocket, but we need to set the foundation and make it scalable. We need to get some of our R&D products out to market and productized so we're ready to launch those with an additional state. So 2026 is really all about getting, taking care of a lot of that tech debt, really building this foundation of how do we build this product so it's scalable and it doesn't take a year and a half to onboard a state. It really should take, you know, six months.
Speaker 2 00:22:21
If not shorter, right. 
Speaker 1 00:22:23
Yeah, yeah. Typically, if it's six months, that's because the state is slow.
Speaker 2 00:22:29
Sure.
Speaker 1 00:22:29
Government is notoriously slow.
Speaker 2 00:22:31
Oh, yeah. That's the truth.
Speaker 1 00:22:34
Yeah, we have one state that should have launched two months ago and we've been ready this whole time, but it's really been on their end to do a lot of the integration testing and set up their sides. And it's just like, okay, like, we've been ready.
Speaker 2 00:22:49
Yeah, I get that.
Speaker 1 00:22:52
so yeah but it's it's an interesting and it's an interesting time 2026 is going to be huge we have our ai product that we're trying to get out we're in a test and learn phase right now with that yeah um and then we need to actually bring that to market uh right now it's been kind of testing this one functionality to figure out the right way to do it but then you know we want by the end of 2026 to for that to be you know easily deployable to to our other states um same with.
Speaker 1 00:23:24
our digital title so there's a lot of kind of understanding the the architecture and the needs and the states and really getting in and diving deep into that so sure yeah the data model aspect.
Speaker 2 00:23:37
is it's it's a really interesting it's something i would yeah totally be interested in digging in and getting hands-on with i think that's really um, It's an interesting way to frame the position and the role. So, um, 80, what I, so my product right now, it's a knowledge discovery. You ask a question, you get an answer. 80% of that though, is based on the quality of the data that sits within our content lake, right? The quality and the standardization of the content that it can answer questions about.
Speaker 2 00:24:08
Um, so even as it relates today, you know, it's not necessarily, it's, the solution architecture really that takes in the content, really standardize it, formats it, puts it in a way that's AI ready. Um, and then knowledge discovery, the, the, I don't want to say the easy part, but it's doing something with that after it's in a standard format is, is, is the bread and butter there.
Speaker 1 00:24:32
So, yeah, yeah, that's awesome.
Speaker 2 00:24:35
I absolutely get the value behind wanting a standard, um, look feel for, for the data model itself.
Speaker 1 00:24:40
So it's tough, really tough, especially when it comes to. Thank you. Different states have different needs, and they can do things very differently. The vehicle side, so there's no, like, standardization when it comes to vehicle classes. You know, like, we'll get TOI for Toyota from one state in one dealer, and then the next dealer may send it over as TOIA. Sure. You know, that's one big thing that we need to be able to figure out on how we kind of standardize that, make kind of a canonicalized set of standards, and then be able to ingest that, because we're trying to build more of a global portal for our dealers so that...
Speaker 1 00:25:29
You don't have to have, you know, if you sell in both West Virginia and Kentucky, you don't have to have a West Virginia version and a Kentucky version. You can sign into one and then we kind of build that gateway in between so that they can use one. But the tough part is there's no standardization out there. So it's trying to figure out, like, what does that model look like and how do we handle that. 
Speaker 2 00:25:51
Yeah. Now, is this product architect, is that leading a team? Is that reporting to you and CTO? What does that structure look like. 
Speaker 1 00:26:02
Yeah. As of right now, it would be reporting to me, but then work very heavily with our architecture and data teams, really driving their. especially on the data side. Our data team, we're just starting to build out, but they're a bit young. So it would kind of work like a product manager would with their engineering lead and not managing, but really, you know, working together to drive that, yeah.
Speaker 2 00:26:29
Sure, that's something that I do, I excel at today, you know, and it all, I work very closely with. Unfortunately, fortunately, my engineering team is based in Poland. And so the engineering manager is sometimes my only, my time, you know, is, I work closely with him and then we have a real good collaboration. So that's nice to hear. Similar kind of setup, so.
Speaker 1 00:26:55
Yeah, yeah, that's awesome. Yeah, and then I don't know about the future of, like, does that become a team because we need multiple? You know, does that role become a team lead of multiple product architects? Sure, yeah. To start to, you know, morph into that, I. Oh, I have to see the open spot, but yeah, it would sit on our team. It would sit outside of Tyler, Jackie, and Tony, so reporting directly into me. Okay, great, and then where do they report up.
Speaker 2 00:27:26
through you as well, or do they report to CPO? Okay, yep, yep, they all report to me, and then I.
Speaker 1 00:27:31
have a fourth manager who is our design manager, so she manages our product design team. There's three other product designers under her. Great, okay, that was going to be my next question. 
Speaker 2 00:27:43
was how UX fits into you. I have a very close relationship with UX. We work very closely together. I think Thursday, I'm actually going on site, and I'm dragging him along with me to.
Speaker 1 00:27:53
hear it straight from the horse's mouth sometimes, so I love it. Yeah, I'm big in pushing our product designers to be very product focused and be, you know, doing a lot of the user research alongside the product managers. as i mentioned that's my background so i started as a product designer before i became a product manager so that is a really big focus for me i'm still heavily involved in the user experience in the ui of our portals and i'm i'm really trying to drive our product designers to be.
Speaker 1 00:28:29
more involved even in our headless api products because i think it's really important that our designers are ui designers our designers are really experienced designers and just because it's an api doesn't mean it can't um you know benefit from someone who's the voice of the.
Speaker 2 00:28:44
customer and can understand that experience absolutely that's great to hear yeah i don't look at my my apis for knowledge discovery because they were they were crafted purely from the engineering standpoint and they uh while they are a product of ours it shows it so yeah that's.
Speaker 1 00:29:03
another reason why we're going to these gen twos of our apis because they originally were, get it done exactly you got to do that first and then you have to deal with the choices stabilize it out and make it yeah I assume this is in office you know.
Speaker 2 00:29:28
everyone's downtown there that that office is there enough room I went in there with Sarah and I met with them in the office I was kind of like whoa.
Speaker 1 00:29:44
open space down below us on the first floor that we may look to take over as we we grow so great okay yeah yeah. Leadership keeps saying that they expect to double our company by the end of the next year, so we're going to go from 100 to 200 and not be surprised.
Speaker 2 00:30:01
I believe it when it comes to, especially with all the news and hype I've been seeing. I'm a part of the Ohio X Group, a tech based out of Columbus, so Champ's always referenced within them.
Speaker 1 00:30:15
Yeah, we're excited about the growth, and Bo, our CTO, keeps saying that he wants to be the biggest software company in Ohio.
Speaker 2 00:30:25
Okay, yeah. It'd be nice to, yeah. I'm all for that.
Speaker 1 00:30:33
Yeah, so does this product architect kind of role interest you, or would you prefer more of the product, like traditional product manager route. 
Speaker 2 00:30:46
I'm, especially in the ever-changing and ever-evolving landscape here, I'm not locked into a single title or a set of responsibilities. So with that in mind, yeah, absolutely. It's something I'm interested in. It's something that I think my experience aligns to pretty well already. Yeah. It could be a great fit here.
Speaker 1 00:31:09
With that said, I would like you to meet with either one of our architects, date a person or maybe both, if that's okay, just so that they can kind of get to know you. You've worked really well with them and they can do more of the technical. I am not technical. I can have a good conversation with an engineer, but that's where it ends.
Speaker 2 00:31:29
Sure, yeah. Yeah, absolutely. So my last day for the year is Thursday. So if I need to come in, I should be available most of next week and the following.
Speaker 1 00:31:44
Okay, yeah. I'll see you then. work with sarah to figure out who that next person would be but um i think it would be important just to double check the kind of your technical expertise because as much as i can ask about, i wouldn't know if you're right um i also will um send you we do have an actual job description for this so i'll send that to you as well just so you can look over it um but either way i think.
Speaker 1 00:32:16
it seems like a good fit i know that the team was really impressed with your kind of technical abilities and you know i've heard nothing but good things about you, I appreciate your passion and would love to bring someone on who has a little bit more of the technical background, because a lot of our product managers do come more from either the client success world or the design world. You know, you kind of, I love hearing people's backgrounds in product and figuring out, because.
Speaker 1 00:32:49
no one, at least our age, went to school for product.
Speaker 2 00:32:52
No, yeah.
Speaker 1 00:32:53
Right.
Speaker 2 00:32:55
Well, I want to be a product manager when I grow up, Dad.
Speaker 1 00:33:01
Maybe now, but.
Speaker 2 00:33:02
Yeah.
Speaker 1 00:33:02
Even when I did a career day for my oldest son, and I didn't even bother talking about product management. I just did product design, because I'm like, they're not going to understand that. At least they can physically see the design piece of it.
Speaker 2 00:33:17
My kid thinks I build robots, because I'm in the AI space. He chats with my chatbot, and it's, yeah.
Speaker 1 00:33:26
Yeah, my kids just think I design apps, like games, on their phones. There you go, yeah. Sure. Kind of, yeah. Not quite as fun, but same concept. Yeah. Sidetracked. I don't remember where I was going with that, but...
Speaker 2 00:33:43
Yeah. No, I'm happy. I'm excited. Yeah, I would love to meet and chat some more, so... I'll have to scrape some of the dust off the engineering part of everything and see what I can come up with, so...
Speaker 1 00:33:56
Yeah, and then you can ask questions to more of our tech team, but in the product architect job description, it does list a little bit of tech stack that we use... Good, okay. ...so that you can kind of get an understanding of that. Obviously, we're not looking at someone who can write code, but someone who can at least understand the, you know, message queues and rabbit something.
Speaker 2 00:34:23
Oh, MQ. Yeah, I gotcha. Those are all technologies we use here today, so yeah.
Speaker 1 00:34:31
Yeah, it's all pretty standard, but all right, cool. Any other questions that you have for me. 
Speaker 2 00:34:40
No, I appreciate the time and the ability to come in and kind of continue the conversation, so.
Speaker 1 00:34:47
Yeah, awesome. Well, I will, I'll touch base with Sarah. We'll be in touch with probably a final. Normally, I'm the final one, but if you have interest in this architect meeting, it would just be meeting our architect and design team members. Sure. And then I'll send you that job description so you can take a look at it. Yeah. After you meet with them, too, we can always have a conversation if you don't think that's right, and another product manager, you know, I don't think that's the end-all be-all if this role isn't the right one, so just keep that in mind as you talk to them, too.
Speaker 2 00:35:21
Absolutely. Yeah, I was going to mention, you know, if this isn't a good fit, I would love to just be included on anywhere that you can use help and assistance. You know, I have a particular, what's the, I have a particular set of skills, and I would love to use them with you guys, so.
Speaker 1 00:35:38
Yeah, awesome. Cool. Well, you'll hear from us soon, but if I don't speak to you specifically, I hope you have another nice holiday time off.
Speaker 2 00:35:49
Yes.
Speaker 1 00:35:51
Yeah, we'll go from there.
Speaker 2 00:35:52
Absolutely. You as well. Yeah, enjoy. Hopefully it's not too snowy where you're at, so.
Speaker 1 00:35:57
Not too bad. I'm a west-sider, so.
Speaker 2 00:35:59
Okay. I'm in Berea myself. I'm right by the airport, so.
Speaker 1 00:36:03
Too bad. I'm in North Ridgeville.
Speaker 2 00:36:06
Oh, yeah. I grew up in Avon, so.
Speaker 1 00:36:09
Yeah. Yeah. I'm, uh, normally I'm in office, but my husband had surgery yesterday, so I'm remote. Oh yeah. Help him out. Yeah. Hopefully all goes well for you. Thank you. I appreciate it. All right. Well, it was nice meeting you. I appreciated the time and you'll hear from us hopefully soon.
Speaker 2 00:36:27
Absolutely. Thank you, Abby. Nice to meet you. Thanks Tyler. Bye.