About the job
At CHAMP, we are redefining the technology used by Motor Vehicle Agencies and their stakeholders. We do so with innovative, cloud-based software that enhances efficiency, security, and interoperability. Our solutions replace outdated processes with modern, scalable platforms, enabling organizations to operate with greater speed and accuracy in an increasingly digital world.



Product Architect

Location: Cleveland (Onsite – 4 days in office)

Department: Product Management

Reports To: Head of Product

Travel: Up to 15%

Sponsorship: This position is not eligible for Visa Sponsorship



Your Impact

We’re looking for a strategic Product Architect to act as the bridge between product, data, and architecture for our complex platforms. This role ensures that business goals and user requirements translate into a scalable, maintainable system with structured, reliable data to support reporting, insights, and seamless integrations, acting as the product steward of our Unified Data Model.

 

 This role is rooted in product discovery and user workflows to ensure new features and configurations align cleanly with our platform model, data standards, and long-term architecture. The ideal candidate thrives at the intersection of product and technology, influencing decisions without formal authority, and enabling teams to deliver high-quality solutions efficiently across complex, multi-layered systems.

 

What You Bring

We welcome candidates from all backgrounds. If you meet most of the qualifications below, we encourage you to apply, even if you don’t meet every single one.



What You’ll Do



Participate in discovery sessions to anticipate technical, data, and platform impacts of new initiatives
Collaborate with product managers and stakeholders to clarify business and user requirements as they relate to data, analytics, and architecture
Help shape the unified data model that balances regulatory requirements, the configurable needs of each state implementation, and the ideal user experience
Ensure the data model supports reliable reporting, insights, and seamless integrations
Communicate decisions and rationale clearly to create share understanding across teams
Serve as a trusted advisor to architecture and engineering teams on how business and user requirements should shape system design, scalability, and data-related impacts
Document decisions, trade-offs, and design patterns to create a shared source of truth for the organization


What We’re Looking For

A strong technical background with experience as a Solution Architect, Software Engineer, Data Engineer, or related role (7+ years)
Proven experience with modern web application frameworks, specifically with React, Angular or Vue, and Java (Spring), PHP, or .NET
Core concepts and practice of MVS, Restful APIs, microservices, and message brokers
Strong understanding of database technologies, both relational (e.g. PostgreSQL, MySQL) and No SQL (e.g. MongoDB, Redis) 
Experience with modern development principles focused on modularity, reusability, scalability, performance, and security best practices
Ability to translate business and user needs into clear technical requirements, data structures, and scalable system designs
Comfortable participating directly with clients in discovery and product conversations, not just implementation
Strong systems thinker who can evaluate tradeoffs, anticipate downstream impacts, and ensure decisions align with the long-term vision of our product portfolio
Collaborative, influence-driven communicator who works well across product, engineering, data, and architecture teams


Why You’ll Like Working Here

Competitive Salary

Annual Bonus Potential

Health, Dental & Vision Insurance

Unlimited PTO Policy

Matching 401K with immediate vesting

Subsidized Lunches at our Cleveland Headquarters

Fast Paced work environment in a growth company

Newly Renovated Office Space



Salary Range

The expected salary range for this position is $140,000 to $175,000 annually. This is a good faith estimate, and final compensation may vary based on experience, skills, and geographic location.



We celebrate diversity and are committed to creating an inclusive environment for all employees. We welcome applicants of all backgrounds, including veterans and individuals with disabilities. If you need accommodations during the application or interview process, please let us know. We’re here to help. 



By joining CHAMP Titles, you will be an integral member of our team with many opportunities for personal growth and upward mobility in a growing organization. We have a great culture that is flexible, collaborative and welcoming.


Benefits found in job post

Vision insurance, 401(k), Medical insurance, Dental insurance

Requirements added by the job poster

• Working in an onsite setting

• Authorized to work in the United States

• No need for visa sponsorship